‘A must-read for students and managers who want to understand and
act upon the challenges that ‘borderless’ firms and their leaders face
in a world revolutionized by disruptive change of all types, with a
renewed emphasis on corporate governance and environmental and
social sustainability.’ – Africa Ariño, IESE Business School, Spain

‘This book provides a fantastic base to develop critical thinking skills
around the topics of global strategic management and globalization. It
offers clear explanations of important frameworks coupled with real
world examples and data which students can use to understand and
analyze firms, industries and countries.’ – Heather Berry, George
Washington University, USA

‘The uncertainty in today’s business world is greater than ever with
climate change, geopolitical fragmentation and the aftershocks of the
pandemic making decision-making harder than ever. This textbook
provides a route map through this uncertainty with lots of fresh case
studies and bang up-to-date explanations of what is happening today.
It provides both practical advice and theoretical insights for students
of business at every level.’ – Julian Birkinshaw, London Business
School, UK

‘I highly recommend this book on global business strategy. Including
numerous real life case studies, a summary of the relevant literature
and useful pedagogical tools, it is the perfect companion for both
students and instructors. It analyses the environmental, social and
governance issues international businesses face and covers
contemporary important developments, such as cryptocurrencies.
Congratulations to the authors on a very well-researched and
comprehensive text!’ – Lourdes S. Casanova, Cornell University,
USA
‘This book is perfect for undergraduate and graduate students
interested in global strategy. It offers complete coverage of the
foundation knowledge needed to understand how companies navigate
and thrive in the current global landscape. The latest theoretical
insights are explained in a rigorous and practically relevant way and
are supported by a wide range of up-to-date activities and examples
that bring these topics to life.’ – Ilya Cuypers, Singapore
Management University, Singapore

‘Lasserre and Monteiro’s textbook on global strategic management is
essential reading for all students of corporate management. I
recommend it to both business executives and students alike for
learning both the conceptual foundations of global strategy and
examining the practical applications of these concepts.’ – Soumitra
Dutta, University of Oxford, UK

‘Global Strategic Management is an invaluable textbook for students
studying globalization, seamlessly blending theory and practice. The
international case studies and examples are particularly useful,
encouraging students to engage in the complex issues facing
globalizations.’ – Ehsan Khajeh, Coventry University, UK

‘Lasserre and Monteiro’s book provides a comprehensive analysis of
how companies operate in the global arena, beginning with a rich
analysis of the global environment, followed by a discussion of
corporate and competitive global strategies, and concluding with a
pragmatic application of those concepts to functional areas of the
organization. The text is didactic and accompanied by a set of
interesting and informative cases. It is an invaluable resources for
students of global strategy.’ – Sergio Lazzarini, Insper Learning
Institution, Brazil

‘Lasserre and Monteiro provide a solid overview of the strategies of
globally operating multinationals and the evolving global business
environment. The book excels at providing tools for managers and is
rich in contemporary data and case examples originating from a wide
variety of industries and national contexts.’ – Klaus Meyer, Ivey
Business School, Canada

‘This latest edition of Global Strategic Management continues to be
the best choice for business students looking to develop a deeper
understanding of global business. It contains numerous practical
cases and explains concepts from literature in a way that allows for
their immediate application. I strongly recommend it to readers and
instructors alike.’ – Michael Mol, Copenhagen Business School,
Denmark

‘This book offers comprehensive treatment of contemporary global
strategy, including coverage of born globals, emerging markets and
open innovation, topics on which Monteiro is a leading authority. By
highlighting the Sustainable Development Goals and the need for a
post-Covid-19 ‘green recovery’, the text equips business leaders of
the future for the Decade of Action and beyond.’ – Shameen
Prashantham, China Europe International Business School, China

‘Lasserre and Monteiro’s new version of Global Strategic
Management is the best global strategy book on the market. It
covers both western and emerging market contexts with a wide range
of theories, models and cases, and highlights emerging issues
including sustainability, digitalisation and national competitiveness.
Organised in three key sections – context, strategy and management
– it’s easy-to-follow, pedagogical approach ensures Global Strategic
Management is ideal for undergraduates and postgraduate students
alike.’ – Mohammad B. Rana, Aalborg University, Denmark

‘This textbook combines academic rigor with practical relevance,
addressing fundamental concepts as well as current and future trends
in globalization. It provides a truly multi-faceted global perspective
with 33 case studies from more than 20 countries, as well as an even
larger number of practical examples.’ – Karlheinz Schwuchow,
Hochschule Bremen University of Applied Sciences, Germany
FIFTH EDITION

Global Strategic Management

Philippe Lasserre and Felipe
Monteiro
                         Philippe Lasserre:

Pour mes enfants Virginie, Benoit, Marion, mes petits-enfants Abigail,
 Noé, Hélio, mon arrière-petite-fille Brianna, ma compagne Aline et à
                       la mémoire de Michelle

         Oh! combien de marins, combien de capitaines
       Qui sont partis joyeux pour des courses lointaines …
                                    Victor Hugo, Oceano Nox (1840)

                          Felipe Monteiro:

 Para minha esposa Mariana, meus filhos Bernardo e Clara, minha
       mãe Carmen e em memória do meu pai Luiz Felipe
             Navegar é preciso; viver não é preciso
                                                 Fernando Pessoa
About the Authors




Philippe Lasserre is Emeritus Professor of Strategy and Asian
Business at INSEAD. He obtained his Master’s degree from ESSEC
(Paris) and his PhD from the University of Texas at Austin. Since
1975 he has been involved in teaching, researching and consulting in
strategic management and international business. He is the author of
various articles on strategy, international business, business in Asia
and joint ventures and he has co-authored Strategies for Asia Pacific
(Palgrave Macmillan: 1995, 1999, 2006) and Strategy and
Management in Asia Pacific (McGraw-Hill: 1999), as well as Global
Strategic Management (Palgrave Macmillan: 2002, 2007, 2012,
2018). He participated in the development of the Euro-Asia Centre of
INSEAD and the INSEAD Asian campus in Singapore in the early
2000s. He has been a visiting professor in various universities in
Singapore, at the China European Business School in Beijing and
Shanghai, at the University of Texas in Dallas, at Curtin University in
Perth, at Thunderbird University in Glendale, Arizona and at the
Université de Geneve. He currently lives in France.




Felipe Monteiro is Senior Affiliate Professor of Strategy and the
Academic Director of the Global Talent Competitiveness Index (GTCI)
at INSEAD. He is also a Senior Fellow of the Mack Institute for
Innovation Management at The Wharton School, University of
Pennsylvania. He obtained his Ph.D. in Strategic and International
Management from the London Business School. He has taught at the
London School of Economics (LSE) and worked as a Senior
Researcher at the Harvard Business School’s Latin American
Research Center. His research focuses on global open innovation and
the role of boundary spanners in multinational corporations, and he
has received important awards from the Academy of Management,
the Academy of International Business and the Strategic
Management Society. He has also received the INSEAD Deans’
Commendation for Excellence in MBA Teaching on multiple occasions,
along with Wharton’s ‘Goes Above and Beyond the Call of Duty’
Teaching Award. He is a prolific and award-winning case writer, and
consults and gives talks for companies and governments worldwide.
He currently lives in France.
Brief contents

    Part I Global contexts
1   Globalization of markets and competition
2   The emerging global environment
3   Globalization, societies and cultures
4   Globalization, sustainable development and social responsibility

    Part II Global strategies
5   Designing a global strategy
6   Assessing countries’ attractiveness
7   Entry strategies
8   Global mergers, acquisitions and strategic alliances

    Part III Managing globally
9   Global marketing
10 Global operations and digital networks
11 Global innovation
12 Global financial management
13 Global human resource management
14 Designing a global organization

    Part IV Conclusions
15 Current and future trends in globalization
16 Global strategic management in action: Haier – the building of a
  global champion, 1984–2020

Glossary
Index of subjects
Index of names
Index of organizations and companies
Long contents

About the authors
Figures
Tables
Mini-cases and examples
Tour of the book
Companion website
Acknowledgements

Introduction to the fifth edition

    Part I Global contexts

1   Globalization of markets and competition
    Introduction
    The phenomenon of globalization
    Globalization from a macro perspective
    What are the factors that push for globalization?
    What are the factors that work against globalization? The
    localization push
    Globalization at the level of the firm
    The global/multi-local mapping
    Summary and key points
    Learning assignments
    Key words
    Web resources
    Notes
    References and further reading

2   The emerging global environment
    Introduction
    Emerging countries and their development
    Emerging countries and their institutional and business
    environments
    Importance of business conglomerates
    Significant presence of ‘bottom-of-the-pyramid’ market segments
    Emerging countries and global firms
    Summary and key points
    Learning assignments
    Key words
    Web resources
    Notes
    References and further reading

3   Globalization, societies and cultures
    Introduction
    The different facets of culture
    National cultural differences
    Economic cultures and business systems
    The impact of cultures on global management
    Summary and key points
    Learning assignments
    Key words
    Web resources
    Notes
    References and further reading
4    Globalization, sustainable development and social
    responsibility
    Introduction
    Sustainable development
    Globalization and environmental issues
    Globalization and societal issues
    Global corporations’ ethics and corporate social responsibility
    Global companies and business ethics
    Social responsibility and global firms: an ongoing challenge
    Summary and key points
    Learning assignments
    Key words
    Web resources
    Notes
    References and further reading

    Part II Global strategies

5   Designing a global strategy
    Introduction
    A company business strategy
    Framework for a global strategy
    Global strategies and the multi-business firm
    Global strategies and the small and medium-sized enterprise
    (SME)
    Born global
    Born global and born digital
    Summary and key points
    Learning assignments
    Key words
    Web resources
    Notes
    References and further reading

6   Assessing countries’ attractiveness
    Introduction
    Why is a country attractive?
    Market, resources and industry opportunities
    Assessing market opportunities
    Plotting trends
    Assessing resource opportunities
    Competitive context
    Socioeconomic, political and cultural distance
    Country risk analysis
    Putting it all together
    Summary and key points
    Learning assignments
    Key words
    Web resources
    Notes
    References and further reading

7   Entry strategies
    Introduction
    Why enter? Defining strategic objectives for a country presence
    When to enter? First mover, follower, or acquirer?
    The pace of entry
    Entry modes: How to enter?
    Comparing entry modes
    Choosing an entry mode
    Entry strategies in the digital space
    Summary and key points
    Learning assignments
    Key words
    Web resources
    Notes
    References and further reading

8   Global mergers, acquisitions and strategic alliances
    Introduction
    Global mergers and acquisitions
    Cross-border acquisitions performance
    The process of mergers and acquisitions
    Pre-acquisition
    Strategic fit
    Capabilities fit
    Cultural fit
    Organizational fit
    Integration framework
    Integrating the companies: the transition phase
    Integrating the companies: the consolidation phase
    Global alliances and joint ventures
    Partner analysis
    Negotiation and design
    Implementation
    Global multilateral alliances
    Global industrial ecosystems
    Joint ventures for local market entry
    Joint venture decay and failure
    Summary and key points
    Learning assignments
    Key words
    Web resources
    Notes
    References and further reading

    Part III Managing globally

9   Global marketing
    Introduction
    Customer behavior, convergence and global segmentation
    Product standardization
    Global branding
    Advantages of global branding
    Disadvantages of global branding
    Building a global brand
    Advertising
    Online global advertising
    Global pricing
    Global account management
    Global solution selling
    Global sales and distribution
    Global marketing positioning
    Fair trade marketing
    Global marketing and its limits
    Summary and key points
  Learning assignments
  Key words
  Web resources
  Notes
  References and further reading

10 Global operations and digital networks
  Introduction
  The globalization of value chains: offshore production and
  outsourcing
  Selecting operational sites
  Global manufacturing networks
  Global sourcing
  Global logistics
  The global management of infrastructure projects
  The internet and global operations
  Summary and key points
  Learning assignments
  Key words
  Web resources
  Notes
  References and further reading

11 Global innovation
  Introduction
  The international product life cycle model
  Global R&D networks
  Globalization of R&D: benefits and constraints
  Management of global R&D networks
  The Global Innovation Index
  Systems
  International transfer of technology
  Global knowledge management
  Global Open Innovation
  Summary and key points
  Learning assignments
  Key words
  Web resources
  Notes
  References and further reading

12 Global financial management
  Introduction
  Currency risk
  Strategic exposure
  Transaction exposure
  Hedging techniques
  Non-hedging techniques
  Translation exposure
  Project finance
  Project valuation
  Project financing
  Global capital structure
  Crosslisting
  International bond market
  Benefits of raising debt globally
  Concerns with raising debt globally
  International bond market credit ratings
  Development finance
  Sovereign funds
  Targeted financing
  Cryptocurrencies
  Trade finance
  Documentary credit
  Export credit agencies
  Countertrade
  Global financial management and taxation
  Summary and key points
  Learning assignments
  Key words
  Web resources
  Notes
  References and further reading

13 Global human resource management
  Introduction
  Assignment of personnel: the global human resource wheel
  Expatriate management
  Virtual assignments vs relocation
  Destination challenges
  International remote work appeals to many
  Localization
  The Global Talent Competitiveness Index
  Skills development
  Individual skills
  Developing skills through job rotation and training
  Working from anywhere (WFA)
  Summary and key points
  Learning assignments
  Key words
  Web resources
  Notes
  References and further reading

14 Designing a global organization
  Introduction
  The merry-go-round organizational challenge
  The international division model
  The global functional model
  The geographical models
  The multi-business global product division models
  The matrix models
  Alternative structural models
  Regional headquarters in global management
  Summary and key points
  Learning assignments
  Key Words
  Web resources
  Notes
  References and further reading

   Part IV Conclusions

15 Current and future trends in globalization
  Introduction
  Global challenges
  Geopolitics and globalization
  Demography and migration
  Asymmetric development
  Regional blocs
  Sustainable development
  Technological developments
  Global risks
  Ethnic, religious and cultural friction
  The future of global corporations
  Summary and key points
  Learning assignments
  Key words
  Web resources
  Notes
  References and further reading

16 Global strategic management in action: Haier – the building
  of a global champion, 1984–2020
  Introduction
  Phases 1 and 2: building the brand and diversification (1984–
  1998)
  The competitive battlefield of China in the 1990s
  Phases 3 and 4: internationalization and global brand strategy
  (1998–2012)
  Phase 5: global integrated network (2012–2019) – consolidating
  global leadership
  Phase 6: ecosystem strategy (2019–)
  Learning assignments
  Notes
  References and further reading

Glossary
Index of subjects
Index of names
Index of organizations and companies
Figures

0.1    Structure of the book
1.1    DHL Global Connectedness Index
1.2    Tariff reductions and international trade
1.3  Globalization push factors
1.4  Localization push factors
1.5  A multinational competitive configuration – Otis Elevators in the
    1960s
1.6 A global competitive configuration – Otis today
1.7    The three steps in globalization
1.8    World trade evolution since 1870
1.9    Migration Chart
1.10   DHL Global Trade Barometer from 2013 to 2019
1.11 Global-local mapping: different industries have different
    competitive requirements
1.12 Global-local mapping: different segments have different
    competitive requirements – example of banking
1.13 Total cost of drug development (average US$ m)
1.14 Pattern of pharmaceutical R&D
1.15 An example of global M&A in the pharmaceutical industry: a
    German, American and French group
1.16 US pharmaceutical distribution channel
2.1 Globalization indicators, 2000–2020 (base 100 = 2000)
2.2 Globalization growth indicators, 2000–2019
2.3  GDP growth rates: emerging countries versus the world (1990–
    2019)
2.4 Shares of middle class, 2015–2020
2.5 Capital formation, 2001–2019
2.6 Foreign trade and investment, 2001–2019
2.7  Rule of law and control of corruption indicators (2019)
2.8  Government effectiveness and regulatory quality indicators,
2.9  Selected ease of doing business scores, 2020 (From 0=Not
    Easy, 100=Easy)
2.10 The three segments in emerging markets
2.11 Advantages and disadvantages of offshoring and offsourcing in
    emerging countries
2.12 The strategic development of emerging market champions
2.13 Number of emerging market multinationals on Fortune Global
    500
3.1 The architecture of business systems
3.2     Framework for negotiation with reference to international
      contracts
3.3     Negotiation Process Source: authors’ own construction adapted
      from Fisher, Ury and Patton
3.4     Negotiation attributes and cultural differences
4.1     Sustainable development and the global firm
4.2     Temperatures worldwide: earth surface (land and oceans)
4.3    Total world GHG emissions
4.4    Variation in spot prices for CO2
4.5    Ecological investment components
4.6    Corruption and development
4.7    Example of tax evasion
4.8    The global ethical web
5.1    The purpose of strategy
5.2    Global development of Samsung Electronics
5.3   Global strategy framework
5.4  A mapping of several global companies using the TNI index
5.5   Mapping of global ambition
5.6   Comparative mapping of global ambition: comparison of
    Walmart (retailing), Michelin (tyres), Airbus (aircraft), Nestlé
    (food)
5.7 The evolution of Whirlpool’s globalization (measured by GRI)
5.8 The three dimensions of the value proposition
5.9 Example of customers’ value curve
5.10 Generic value chain
5.11 Typical globalization of the value chain
5.12 A generic global distribution of activities in the value chain
5.13 Sources of competitive advantage
5.14 The Transfer, Adapt, Create model applied to the globalization
    of mass retailing
5.15 Global/multi-local mapping and global structures
5.16 Essilor’s business process
5.17 Perspective on Essilor’s market development (figures as of
    2014)
6.1  The foreign market entry decision
6.2  General investment framework
6.3  Framework for assessment of a country’s market, resources
    and industry attractiveness
6.4 Relationship between GDP per capita and mobile subscriptions
    per 100 people, 2019 (R = 0.85)
6.5 Relationship between GDP per capita and the production of
    cement, 2019 (R = 0.36)
6.6 The ‘middle-class effect’
6.7  Illustration of the middle-class effect in Indonesia between 2002
    and 2019
6.8 Market segmentations
6.9 Natural resource per capita
6.10 Pay and productivity and skills of current workforce
6.11 Summary of the CAGE Distance Framework model
6.12 Framework for country risk analysis
6.13 Variability of economic growth, Hungary versus Czech Republic,
    2000–2019
6.14 Political and economic risks in selected countries
6.15 Foreign direct investment and country risks, 2000–2019
7.1 Entry modes
7.2 Factors influencing entry modes
7.3  Mapping of entry mode choices
8.1  Number and value of global mergers and acquisitions from 1985
    to 2020
8.2 The process of mergers and acquisitions
8.3 Fit analysis in mergers and acquisitions
8.4 Framework for capabilities analysis in mergers and acquisitions
8.5 Cash-flow-based valuation for M&As
8.6 A model of a step-by-step integration framework
8.7 Contingent integration modes
8.8 Various types of alliance in a global context
8.9 Framework for the analysis of strategic alliances
8.10 Economic value potential for each partner in an alliance
8.11 Partner’s fit analysis in strategic alliances
8.12 Assessing the strategic fit based on the criticality of the alliance
    for partners
8.13 Strategic fit against partners’ strategic agendas
8.14 Organizational designs in alliances
8.15 Typical items in a joint venture agreement
8.16 Management skills needed in alliances
8.17 The death valley spiral
8.18 Types of alliance constellations
8.19 Nestlé Alliances Portfolio
8.20 Arqus European Universities alliances
8.21 Alliance partners in GAVI
8.22 Lead firm ecosystem: a simplified view of Apple iPhone
    ecosytem
8.23 Simplified example of a value proposition ecosystem: long-
    distance travel ecosystem
8.24 Example of a technology-centred ecosytem: electrical vehicle
    ecosystem
8.25 Organization of the cross-company teams and global alliance
    committee in the Renault–Nissan Alliance
8.26 The Nissan Revival Plan and the cross-functional teams
8.27 New organization of the Renault–Nissan Alliance
8.28 Renault’s alliances and global acquisition network
9.1 Western versus Asian hierarchy of needs
9.2 Customer segmentation
9.3 Global product standardization types
9.4   Global brand positioning
9.5   Principle of global account management
9.6  A financial global account management network servicing a
    leading European manufacturer
9.7 Global solution selling: an international bid for a power plant in
    China
9.8 Sales and distribution
10.1 The global operations network
10.2 Forms of offshoring
10.3 Different models of internationalization of services
10.4 Different global sourcing designs
10.5 Reverse auction process
10.6 Bidding profile for reverse auction
10.7 Apple supply chain
10.8 Amazon’s global logistics
10.9 Airbus logistics
10.10 Players in an international infrastructure project
10.11 Global use of the internet, April 2020
10.12 Players in the internet space
10.13 Reach vs richness trade-off
10.14 Traditional supply chain model
10.15 Integrated supply chain ecosystem
10.16 Ericsson global sites and centres
11.1 The international product life cycle
11.2 Nestlé’s global R&D architecture
11.3 Evolution over time of global R&D activities
11.4 Global Innovation Index (GII) Framework
11.5 Knowledge creation, sharing and ‘melding’ in global firms
12.1 Key issues in global financial management
12.2 Variation of major currencies against the euro, 2000 to 2021,
    yearly average
12.3 Bitcoin price (January–May 2021)
12.4 Documentary credit in international trade
13.1 Global human resource issues
13.2 The global human resource wheel
13.3 Human resource wheels
13.4 The expatriate challenges
13.5 Expatriates’ acculturation: the ‘four Fs’
13.6 The primary ingredients of individual managerial behaviour
    required for success in expatriate assignments in Asia
13.7 Selected indices of cost of living excluding rent
13.8 Expatriate tenure
13.9 Human resources practices supporting expatriation
13.10 Percentage of respondents who would work remotely for an
    employer with no physical presence in their country
13.11 The Global Talent Competitiveness Index (GTCI) model
13.12 Hiring and firing practices
13.13 Global leadership capabilities
13.14 Global management development in a global oil company
14.1 The evolution of global organizational models
14.2 The global functional organizational design
14.3 Geographical organizational models
14.4 The multi-business global product division organizational model
14.5 Matrix organizational simplified models
14.6 The Olam three-dimensional organization matrix
14.7 Convergence of global organizational designs
14.8 New business models for a new global landscape
14.9 Profiles of regional headquarters in global firms
14.10 Organizational structure of regional headquarters
14.11 Siemens’ new company structure on 1 January 2008
14.12 Siemens’ company structure in 2020
14.13 ACER’s organizational model
15.1 Global challenges and the global corporation
15.2 The global income gap, ratio of GDP per capita in OECD
    countries to low-income countries, 1990–2019
15.3 Projected changes in temperature according to different
    projected levels of greenhouse gas emissions
15.4 Energy demand and gas emission projections according to two
    scenarios
15.5 A new organizational model
16.1 Evolution of market share in China in major appliances (2014–
    2019)
16.2 The competitive battlefield in China, 1990s to 2010
16.3 Schematic representation of Rendanheyi 2.0 as applied to
    water purifiers
16.4 Haier’s inverted pyramid organizational structure
Tables

1.1    Globalization data
1.2    The societal benefits of globalization
1.3    Major global acquisitions and mergers from 1999 to 2020
1.4  Manufacturing and R&D facilities outside country of origin
1.5  Major producers of generics
1.6  Pharmaceutical market historical data and forecasts, US$ bn
    (global 2019-2025)
2.1 Estimated evolution of middle-class populations in China, India
    and Indonesia (millions)
2.2    Evolution from agriculture to industry and services
2.3    Possible institutional voids in emerging countries
2.4    Ease of doing business indices
2.5    Differences between traditional middle-class strategies and
      bottom-of-the-pyramid strategies
2.6     Differences in internationalization patterns between traditional
      multinational companies and emerging markets multinationals
2.7     Comparison of revenues growth rate between 2011 and 2016
      between BCG Global Challengers in various industries and
      traditional multinational companies
2.8     Selected examples of global challengers from emerging
      countries
2.9     Charoen Pockphand: diversification and globalization
3.1     Hofstede values orientation (selected countries)
3.2    Trompenaars' six value orientations
3.3  The eight dimensions of Meyer's culture map
3.4  Country clusters for regions covered in the GLOBE project and
    the salient cultural and leadership characteristics they present
3.5 Assessing a business system
3.6 Differences in business systems
3.7  Monocultural vs multicultural teams
3.8  Impact of culture on negotiating behaviour: a comparison of
    American and Japanese responses
3.9 Chinese business negotiation style
3.10 Business practice differences
3.11 Brazilian indicators
4.1 Sustainable development issues
4.2 Total world GHG emissions including land-use change and
    forestry (billion tons equivalent CO2)
4.3   Depletion of natural resources
4.4   Corruption indices including rankings
4.5   Five corruption cases from 'clean' countries
4.6   A checklist of anti-corruption measures
4.7   The ten principles of the UN Global Compact
5.1   Business, corporate and global strategy
5.2   Distribution of the world market by regions in selected
    industries, 2019 (as a percentage of US$ value)
5.3 Distribution of markets and revenues in tyres, 2019 (%)
5.4   Global positioning alternatives
5.5   Capabilities leading to competitive advantage
5.6   Sources of competitive advantage of global companies
5.7   Building global sustainable advantage
5.8   Organizational designs for global strategies
5.9     SMEs' economic weight measured by contribution to
       employment and value added in selected countries in Europe,
       North and South America, Asia Pacific
5.10    Typology of international SMEs
5.11    Obstacles to internationalization as perceived by SMEs
5.12    Differences between born global and traditional global firms
5.13    Examples of three major born global firms
5.14    HSBC distribution of revenues, employment and customers
6.1     Macro indicators used in international market assessments
6.2     Characteristics of demand according to country life cycle
       clusters
6.3     Quality of infrastructures
6.4     Porter's industry analysis as applied to international business
       entry
6.5     Major types of incentive for foreign investments
6.6     Cluster characteristics, Asia Pacific
6.7     Country profiles
7.1     Entry strategy objectives
7.2     Advantages and disadvantages of being a first mover
7.3     Advantages and disadvantages of country-based joint venture
       partnerships
7.4     Comparing various entry modes
7.5     Three models of entry
8.1     Value creation in M&As
8.2     Failures in the integration process
8.3     Main strategic objectives pursued in various types of alliance
8.4     Value creation and distribution
8.5     Receptivity in learning
8.6     Types of local partner for market entry joint ventures
9.1     Customer needs and value curves
9.2  Top five leading global brands comparison between 2020 and
    2000
9.3 Examples of corporations using global and local brands
9.4 Top ten relevant brands
9.5 Major global advertising agencies, 2019
9.6    Capabilities required for global solution selling
9.7    Various global marketing positions
10.1   Criteria for facilities location
10.2   Ferdow's classification of globally set-up factories
10.3   Phases in international infrastructure projects
10.4   Digital platforms
10.5   Effects of the internet on globalization
10.6   The evolution of Industry 4.0
10.7   Comparison of supply chains
10.8   Organizational requirements for e-business
11.1   R&D capabilities, 2000 and 2018
11.2 Top ten R&D spenders as% of GDP
11.3 Total R&D spend US$PPP (purchasing power parity)
11.4 Performance evaluation criteria
11.5 Global Innovation Index top 20 countries
11.6 Classification of technology
11.7 Opportunities and constraints for knowledge management in
    global companies
11.8 Tools and approaches used for knowledge management in the
    metanational corporation
11.9 Intellectual property rights and their infringement
11.10 Protection of intellectual property rights
11.11 Scout locations
12.1 Classification of risk linked to infrastructure assets
12.2 Financial risk mitigants and incentives for infrastructure finance
12.3 Correlation coefficients of monthly returns for selected stock
    markets, 1 January 2016 to 1 March 2021
12.4 Regional distribution of domestic and foreign listed companies
    for various stock exchanges, 2021
12.5 Types of international bond
12.6 List of the main multinational DFIs
12.7 The main bilateral DFIs
12.8 Top ten largest sovereign wealth fund rankings by total assets
13.1 The changing nature of international staffing
13.2 Eight global trends for global mobility 2021
13.3 Top twenty countries
14.1 Characteristics of global functional organizational design
14.2 Characteristics of geographical organizational models
14.3 Characteristics of the multi-business global product division
    organizational model
14.4 Characteristics of matrix organizational models
15.1 World population, 2015 to 2100
15.2 Pros and cons of migration
15.3 Global and regional inequalities
15.4 Regional trade agreements
15.5 Selected global risks 2021
15.6 Simplified list of the 15 Global Challenges identified by The
    Millennium Project
15.7 The Millennium Project Global Challenges
15.8 Management of new roles for the individualized corporaton
15.9 Data relating to Pulau Vicente
16.1 Haier's six strategic stages
16.2 Head-to-head comparison of Haier Smart Home and Midea
    groups
16.3 Haier vs. global competitors,2018-
16.4 Haier's key international industrial investments
Mini-cases and examples
Tour of the book

1      Chapter introductions and learning objectives | provide a
    guide to the material in each chapter and allow progress to be
    checked.




2      Mini-cases | help students to apply key concepts in global
    strategy to the real world of business. They are largely based on
    a diverse range of ‘transnational’ companies which operate across
    the world.




3     Inserts | provide additional information that expands upon and
    contextualizes key information.




4   Figures and tables | are used extensively to illustrate the theory.
5      In-chapter examples | are scattered throughout the text to
    reinforce how the theory is put into practice. Longer examples are
    highlighted and exemplify global strategy at work.




6     Summary and key points | provide an abbreviated version of
    the main concepts and theories. They are useful for revision and
    checking understanding of the key points.
7    Learning assignments | test understanding of the chapter and
    encourage further thought.




8    Key words | appear at the end of each chapter and can be used
    as checklists for revision.




9     Web resources | are included for students who want to delve a
    little further.
10 References and further reading | identify key texts for further
  research and include books and journal articles.
Companion website

Visit the companion website at bloomsbury.pub/global-strategic-
management-5e for a range of teaching and learning resources
including:




For instructors:
•   Microsoft® PowerPoint presentations for each chapter
•   Answers to mini-case questions
•   Answers to learning assignments
•   A testbank of multiple choice and essay questions
•   Videos illustrating issues covered in the chapters of the book

For students:
•   Multiple choice questions for revision
•   Appendices
Acknowledgements

The authors would like to give particular recognition to Anne Marie
Carrick for her collaboration in the preparation, documentation and
editing of the book.
   We would also like to thank our colleagues at INSEAD who gave us
useful advice, as well as their blessing, to use some of their work in
this new edition: David Dubois, Horacio Falcão, Wesley Koo, Michael
Lee, Joerg Niessing, Yadav Prashant, Phanish Puranam and Anna
Szerb.
   We would also like to thank our colleagues at INSEAD who gave
their support for the previous editions: Henri Claude de Bettignies,
Amitava Chattopadhyay, Gabriel Hawawini, Philip Parker, Jose
Santos, Hellmut Schütte, Jasjit Singh, Claude Viallet (†) and Michael
Witt.
   Many thanks also to all our colleagues in the INSEAD Strategy
area for their continuous support while we were writing this book. In
particular, our gratitude goes to Michael Bikard, Laurence Capron,
Yves Doz, Javier Gimeno, Ilze Kivleniece, Chengyi Lin, Subi Rangan,
Andrew Shipilov, Ithai Stern and Peter Zemsky. Having them around–
even during Covid times– has been a major source of inspiration for
us. Our thanks also goes to our faculty assistants namely Elodie
Poulain and Typhanie Vasseur.
   Thanks also to Mary Boldrini from the INSEAD Library who helped
us to retrieve useful data and Andrew Lee who helped with additional
research. We are also grateful to the research department of
INSEAD who provided some financial support and to the INSEAD
Case Publishing team, Isabel Assureira, Carine Dao Panam, Claire
Derouin, Hazel Hamelin, Emilie Lescalier Traquet and Larisa
Shikhova. We would also like to thank the global leaders who
generously gave us their time and opened the doors of their
organizations for us to write about their challenges and
accomplishments. In particular, we would like to thank Joao Alvares
Ribeiro, Jean-Claude Biver, Ernesto Ciorra, Celso Ferrer, Yannick
Fierling, Jean-Marc Frangos, Mariano Gomide, Paulo Kakinoff, Joao
Roquette Ribeiro, Vincent Rotger, Zhang Ruimin, Javier Sobrino,
Francesco Starace, Shubao Sun, Marco Stefanini, Fabio Tentori and
Geraldo Thomaz.
  Our gratitude also goes to our collaborators in other projects,
which inspired a number of the ideas and examples presented in this
book. Our special thanks go to Tulio Alburquerque, Tina Ambos,
Niklas Arvidsson, Sergio Averbach, Jose Miguel Benavente, Julian
Birkinshaw, Daniel Blake, Claudio Conti, John Davies, Benoit
Decreton, Denise Dunlap, Lisa Friedman, Sumantra Ghoshal ( † ),
Gustavo Herrero, Susan Hill, Katia Kachan, Suzana Kertesz, Thomas
Klueter, Bruno Lanvin, Sergio Lazzarini, Luiz Mesquita, Michael Mol,
Caterina Moschieri, Aldo Musacchio, Nikita Pillai, Marta Pimentel,
Gabriel Rozman, Jose Santos, Don Sull, Betania Tanure, Katherine
Tatarinov and Ivanka Visjnic.
  Christian Ritter, Elizabeth Holmes, Sophie Harrington and Isabelle
Cheng from Bloomsbury and Deborah Maloney from Integra gave us
their competence and patience in editing the text. Our final
wholehearted thanks goes to our families and friends for all their
support and love.
Introduction to the fifth edition

The fifth edition of this book was prepared from 2020 to mid 2022, a
time in which the Covid-19 pandemic severely impacted economic,
social and health conditions. More than 500 million people were
infected with the Coronavirus and more than 6.3 million people have
died as of June 2022. In early 2022 Russia invaded Ukraine affecting
global trade and investments and disrupting global supplies.
   Those events have triggered large-scale government support for
businesses and industries and the recovery presents a unique
occasion to rethink and reset priorities when rebuilding, focusing
efforts on the sustainability, resilience and inclusiveness aspects of
governments’ policies and businesses’ strategies and actions.
   During this unprecedented time, businesses adapted rapidly to both
changes in consumers’ behaviours and a shift to remote working,
rapidly deploying digital systems to accommodate these changes.
The general consensus is that the move to digital, hybrid ways of
working and work from everywhere trends are likely to persist even
after the pandemic subsides.
   Covid-19 has brought globalization front and centre of the debate,
highlighting interconnectedness (the virus went global in a few weeks)
and deglobalization (the difficulties in international cooperation and the
re-emergence of nationalisms in the provision of vaccines, medical
supplies, protective masks, etc.). The pandemic and the Ukrainian
war have also highlighted the interdependence of global production
and supply chains, as well as the risks and fragilities that they are
exposed to, forcing multinationals to revise their localization and
procurement strategies to gain resilience in the current uncertain
environment.
   Furthermore, a resurgence of several forms of nationalism in
Russia, Turkey, China, Central Europe and the USA have given a new
momentum to protectionism. The European Union itself, one of the
most ambitious international integrative organizations, showed some
signs of both disillusion and dissolution, with Brexit being the most
notorious example. Even the emerging world is experiencing some
economic slowdown. As a response to the Russian invasion of
Ukraine in early 2022, Western democracies, lead by the US, UK and
EU, imposed a series of economic and financial sanctions against
Russia that affected global trade and finances in energy, food and
disrupted global supply chains. In spite of uncertain signs, many
corporations from all over the world have shown a willingness to
pursue their quest for global markets. OECD (Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development) firms are still looking at
emerging economies in order to capture the consumption appetite of
their expanding middle classes. New champions from emerging
countries are progressively planting investments outside their
boundaries and developing an appetite for acquiring companies in the
industrial world.
   On the technological front, the recent period has seen confirmation
that the world has fully entered into a digital era that permeates
nearly all segments of human activities: health, industrial production,
entertainment, communication research and development and more.
   This new edition considers that globalization is still an ongoing,
fundamental economic phenomenon, but tries to take into
consideration the above-mentioned geopolitical, technological and
climatic trends. The objectives of this edition are to help students and
managers to understand the forces that drive globalization and to put
together all aspects of global strategic management to provide firms
with the relevant skills to support their global ambitions. It is still about
global firms and global management. Its objective remains to help
graduate and undergraduate students to understand the main issues
that companies and their managers confront when they ‘go global’ or
‘manage globally’, and how to cope with them. Data and narratives
have been updated in light of the aforementioned new developments,
and several case examples added. At the end of each chapter there
are now one or two Mini-cases that students may discuss in class.
   The book has been designed as a support for specialized courses
on strategic management for global firms or courses on international
business, and is equivalent to a series of course notes to be read in
preparation for a class or afterwards. Students will normally be
assigned a case study for each of the topics covered in the book. It
can also be used as a reference guide for managers and executives.
   There are a number of excellent textbooks on international business
already available.1 How does this book compare?
   First, the focus of the book is on business firms and their
employees. It has eliminated from the text the macroeconomic and
political factors that traditional international business textbooks cover,
such as international trade and investment flows, the problems of
economic development in emerging countries, analysis of international
and regional institutions (such as the World Trade Organization
(WTO), the United Nations (UN), the World Bank and other
development banks, the European Union (EU), the North American
Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations (ASEAN)), as well as geopolitical analysis of diplomacy and
defence. It is assumed that students who are interested in those
topics will read specialized books or attend courses taught by
economists or political scientists.
   Second, the book takes the view that the traditional international
business paradigm, based on the study of investments in ‘foreign’
countries by ‘home’-country firms, is no longer sufficient for studying
global firms. International and multinational firms controlling a vast
array of ‘foreign subsidiaries’ have been in existence for a long time
but, since the 1970s, the concept of ‘global’ firms has progressively
imposed itself at the nexus of borderless strategic thinking. Global
firms have increasingly shed their original nationality to manage a
network of firms in an integrated and coordinated way out of ‘centres’
that are no longer necessarily located in their country of origin. Those
firms ‘without borders’ make up the vanguard of the modern industrial
architecture. More and more ‘born global’ companies and small and
middle-sized firms have improved their global presence.
   Some chapters have been strengthened to deal with the new reality
of multinational corporations as they put environmental, social and
corporate governance (ESG) at the front and centre of their
strategies and operations.
   New sections have been added to emphasize the role of digital
technologies, which have revolutionized consumer behaviours,
impacted core business models and blurred borders between
industries and sectors. In the case of multinational corporations,
these disruptive digital tools have also enabled productive and
innovative networks, supply chain management and marketing of
products and services at a distance. The chapter on global alliances
has been augmented with references to global ecosystems.
   This edition, like the previous ones, is inspired largely by theoretical
and empirical work. Obviously, classical issues such as entry
strategies or expatriate management will not be forgotten, but the
overall tone of the book looks at how, ultimately, international or
multinational firms become global and are managed globally.
   Third, the book aims to describe and analyse the key strategic and
managerial challenges for firms, but does not pretend to be
exhaustive or encyclopaedic. Many theoretical developments have
been deliberately omitted: transaction costs theory, locational theory
and agency theory, for instance. We have also avoided the
temptation to provide long lists of publications. Instead, we have
concentrated solely on the most relevant literature in each discussion.
A more extensive list of references and further reading is available at
the end of each chapter.
   Several Examples and Mini-cases have been inserted in the
chapters in order to illustrate the points made in the text. In addition,
a number of online appendices can be found on the companion
website, which provide further information on cryptocurrency,
global/local mapping, country profiles, government support programs,
globalization indices, country comparisons, cash flow adjustment,
different types of risk, organizational design and scenario
construction. These can be accessed and downloaded via the
companion        website,         at     bloomsbury.pub/global-strategic-
management-5e.
   Finally, the book owes a considerable debt to the work done by
professors or ex-professors at INSEAD Business School, and has
favoured their works rather than those of others. This has been a
deliberate choice, given the long-standing involvement of the authors
in the intellectual life of this institution.

The structure of the book
As Figure 0.1 shows, the bulk of the book is organized into three
parts of unequal length according to the classical strategic framework
of Environment, Strategy, Implementation: which in this case
translates to Global Contexts, Global Strategies and Managing
Globally. The Current and Future Trends in Globalization and the long
case study on Global Strategic Management in Action (Chapter 16)
tie up the arguments presented in that structure.
Figure 0.1 Structure of the book


How can this book be used?
This book can be used in three ways:

1   As a stand-alone textbook for a course based on lectures and
  exercises. At the end of each chapter there are questions that can
  serve as learning assignments to prepare for such lectures, or to
  follow them.
2   As background reading for a course based on case studies. To
  that end Appendix I.1 (see companion website) lists potential
  cases that can be used to support each chapter of the book.
  Those cases are available from the most important case
  platforms, such as INSEAD Publishing, Harvard Business School
  Publishing and The Case Center. There are also some excellent
  casebooks available.2
3 As a reference book, particularly in executive programmes or for
  individual readers who wish to get acquainted with global strategic
  management without being burdened by too much theory and
  background reading.

Notes
1   Inkpen and Ramaswamy (2006); Tallman (2009); Peng (2021).
2   De la Torre, Doz and Devinney (2001); Bartlett and Ghoshal (2002).


References and further reading
Recent (since 2015)
Hill, C. W. L. and Hult, G. T. M. (2021) International Business: Competing in
   the Global Marketplace, 13th edn (New York: McGraw-Hill).
Peng, M. (2021) Global Strategy, 5th edn (Boston, MA: Cengage Learning).
Schlege, B. and Winer, R. (2020) The Routledge Companion to Strategic Marketing (Milton,
   Oxford: Routledge).
Berck, J. and Demarzo, P. (2020) Corporate Finance (London: Pearson Education).
Weihrich, H., Cannice, M. and Koontz, H. (2020) Management: A Global, Innovative, and
   Entrepreneurial Perspective, 15th edn (New York, NY: McGraw-Hill).
Geringer, M., McNett, J., Minor, S. and Ball, D. (2020) International Business (New York, NY:
   McGraw-Hill).
Hawawini, G. and Viallet, C. (2019) Finance for Executives: Managing for Value Creation, 6th
   edn (Mason, OH: South-Western Cengage Learning).
Wild, J. and Wild, K. (2019) International Business: The Challenges of Globalization, 9th edn
   (London: Pearson).
van Tulder, R., Verbeke, A. and Piscitello, L. (2019) International Business in the Information
   and Digital Age (Bingley, UK: Emerald Publishing).
Eun, C. and Resnick, B. (2017) International Financial Management, 7th edn (New York, NY:
   McGraw-Hill).
Jensen, K. R. (2017) Leading Global Innovation: Facilitating Multicultural Collaboration and
   International Market Success (London: Palgrave).
Pucik, V., Evans, P. A. L., Björkman, I. and Morris, S. S. (2017) The Global Challenge:
   International Human Resource Management, 3rd edn (Chicago, IL: Chicago Business
   Press).
Tell, F., Berggren, C., Brusoni, S. and van de Ven, A. (2017) Managing Knowledge Integration
   Across Boundaries (Oxford: Oxford University Press).
Lehmacher, W. (2017) The Global Supply Chain: Technology, Transformation and Circular
  Economy (Wiesbaden: Springer International).
Westland, C. (2016) Global Innovation Management, 2nd edn (London: Palgrave).


Before 2015
Johansen, J., Farooq, S. and Cheng, Y. (2014) International Operations Networks (London:
   Springer-Verlag).
Kotler, P. and Kotler, M. (2014) Winning Global Markets:
How Businesses Invest and Prosper in the World’s High-Growth Cities (Hoboken, NJ: Wiley).
Hayton, J. (ed.) (2012) Global Human Resource Management Casebook (New York, NY:
   Routledge).
Yip, G. and Hult, G. T. M. (2012) Total Global Strategy, 3rd edn (Harlow: Pearson Education).
Bartlett, C. and Beamish, P. W. (2011) Transnational Management: Text, Cases and Readings
   in Cross-Border Management, 6th edn (New York, NY: McGraw-Hill).
Hitt, M. A., Ireland, R. D. and Hoskisson, R. E. (2011) Strategic Management: Competitiveness
   and Globalization: Concepts and Cases, 9th edn (Mason, OH: Thomson South-Western).
Tallman, S. (2009) Global Strategy: Global Dimensions of Strategy (Chichester: Wiley).
Dunning, J. H. and Lundan, S. M. (2008) Multinational Enterprises and the Global
   Economy, 2nd edn (Cheltenham: Edward Elgar).
Inkpen, A. and Ramaswamy, K. (2006) Global Strategy: Creating and Sustaining Advantage
   Across Borders (Oxford: Oxford University Press).
Ariño, A., Ghemawat, P. and Ricart, J. E. (2004) Creating Value Through International Strategy
   (Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan).
Bartlett, C. A. and Ghoshal, S. (2002) Managing Across Borders: The Transnational Solution,
   2nd edn (Boston, MA: Harvard Business School).
De la Torre, J., Doz, Y. L. and Devinney, T. (2001) Managing the Global Corporation: Case
   Studies in Strategy and Management, 2nd edn (New York, NY: McGraw-Hill).
Doz, Y. L., Santos, J. and Williamson, P. J. (2001) From Global to Metanational: How
   Companies Win in the Knowledge Economy (Boston, MA: Harvard Business School).
Bartlett, C. A., Doz, Y. L. and Hedlund, G. (1990) Managing the Global Firm (London:
   Routledge).
Prahalad, C. K. and Doz, Y. L. (1987) The Multinational Mission: Balancing Local
   Demands and Global Vision (New York, NY: Simon & Schuster).


Journals
Academy of Management Journal:
https://aom.org/research/journals/journal
California Management Review: https://cmr.berkeley.edu/
Global Strategy Journal:
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/20425805
Harvard Business Review: https://hbr.org/
Journal of International Business Policy:
https://link.springer.com/journal/42214/volumes-and-issues
Journal of International Business Studies:
   http://www.springer.com/business+%26+management/journal/41267
Journal of Management Studies:
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/14676486
Journal of World Business:
https://www.journals.elsevier.com/journal-of-world-business
Long Range Planning: https://www.journals.elsevier.com/long-range-planning
MIT Sloan Management Review: http://sloanreview.mit.edu
The International Journal of Human Resource Management:
   http://www.tandfonline.com/toc/rijh20/current
The International Journal of Logistics Management: http://www.emeraldinsight.com/journal/ijlm
Thunderbird International Business Review:
   http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/10.1002/(ISSN)1520-6874
Part I

Global contexts

Chapter 1 Globalization of markets and competition | Chapter 1
defines what ‘globalization’ means, first from a geopolitical and
economical point of view and second for business enterprises. It
looks at the many political, technological, social and economic factors
that have driven globalization as well as the ones restraining it. It
describes how companies have over time moved from being national
to international, then to multinational and finally becoming global firms.
It ends by proposing a mapping of industries and firms according to
the extent to which they are exposed to globalization or localization
drivers.

Chapter 2 The emerging global environment | Chapter 2 underlines
the growing importance of emerging countries, their companies and
their markets in the world since the 1980s. It describes the main
characteristics of emerging countries, their development paths and
their attractiveness as markets and as offshore operational bases, as
well as their competitiveness and the role of their global champions.
Strategies for doing business in emerging countries will also be
discussed.

Chapter 3 Globalization, societies and cultures | Chapter 3 discusses
how in different parts of the world societies still differ in terms of the
ways economic activities are structured, coordinated and managed,
and how cultures influence the behaviour of people and organizations.
It begins with a presentation of different streams of research showing
international differences in business cultures and economic
organizations. Various cross-cultural studies will be presented,
followed by a discussion of the impact of cultural differences on
management, cross-cultural teams, negotiations and business
practices. The last part of the chapter deals specifically with
international negotiations.

Chapter 4 Globalization, sustainable development and social
responsibility | This chapter addresses some of the issues that global
companies face concerning environmental and ethical challenges.
Particular emphasis is put on the kind of ethical dilemma global firms
and managers have to confront in their worldwide operations – issues
such as corruption, tax evasion, environmental protection, human
rights, labour laws and gender equality.
Chapter 1

Globalization of markets and
competition




 By the end of the chapter you should be able to:

 •  Define globalization from a macro environment perspective
 •  Identify the forces pushing towards globalization and the forces
   pushing for localization
 • Define what globalization means for firms
 • Identify the various steps of globalization for firms
 • Make a distinction between multinational and global firms
 •  Spell out the benefits and pitfalls of globalization
 •  Analyse the recent trend of deglobalization
 •     Discuss the consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic on
   globalization
 •    Position an industry or a business on the global/multi-local
   mapping



Introduction
Chapter 1 defines what ‘globalization’ means: firstly from a geopolitical
and economic point of view, and secondly for business enterprises. It
looks at the many political, technological, social and economic factors
that have driven globalization, as well as those restraining it. It describes
how many companies have evolved, over time, from ‘national’ to
‘international’, then ‘multinational’ and finally ‘global’. Using an example,
the chapter looks at how a multinational company having foreign
subsidiaries can become global by extending its operations worldwide
and adopting a competitive configuration through strong coordination and
integration of its international activities across borders. Both the benefits
and constraints of globalization are described. Some factors still push
towards a local approach to management, on a country-by-country
basis, and the elements inducing this localization are analysed.
   Finally, the global/multi-local mapping matrix is presented as a tool to
position industries, companies and businesses according to the relative
importance they place on global versus local approaches. The chapter
ends by introducing some of the societal issues associated with
globalization.

The phenomenon of globalization
Since the 1960s, international trade, investment and migration have all
grown much faster than the world economy. Firms have multiplied their
presence outside their country of origin, employing more and more
people and selling and buying technology internationally (see Table 1.1
and Figure 1.1). More products are sold in similar stores, with similar
features carrying a common brand across the globe. Factories that were
prosperous in the Western world have been closed and transferred to
lower-cost countries. English is now considered the lingua franca for
major business transactions. Events happening in one location are visible
in real time everywhere thanks to the internet and social networks. This
is what is commonly referred to as the process of ‘globalization’.
Table 1.1 Globalization data
Source: Authors’ own, based on data from World Bank, World Development Indicators:
https://databank.worldbank.org/source/world-development-indicators; UNCTAD:
https://unctad.org/statistics; BIS (Bank of International Settlements):
https:///www.bis.org/statistics/rpfx19.htm?m=6%7C381%7C677.




Figure 1.1 DHL Global Connectedness Index
Source: The Global Connectedness Index is a combination of measures concerning the global
movement of trade, capital, Information and people,
https://www.dhl.com/content/dam/dhl/global/dhl-spotlight/documents/pdf/spotlight-g04-global-
connectedness-index-2020.pdf.

   In today’s business world, managers, politicians, journalists and
academics commonly refer to concepts such as ‘globalization’, ‘global
industries’, ‘global competition’, ‘global strategies’ and so on. While those
terms are widely used, their exact meaning is often not well understood.
For some people, globalization is considered to be the intrusion of
foreigners into local communities. Its effect is viewed as a destruction of
the social fabric within nations. For others, it means freedom of
movement, entrepreneurship, an exchange of cultures and
harmonization. As far as the corporate world is concerned, some are
certain it means ‘to expand the company’s presence abroad’; for others,
it means ‘standardizing a product and selling it to the world’; for others
still, it denotes an approach to management in which decision making is
centralized at corporate headquarters. There are many reasons for this
confusion. One relates to the fact that the phenomenon of globalization
describes macroeconomic and political change, while for the business
world it denotes a strategic and managerial issue. While the concept of
globalization is relatively new, the phenomenon is not. There have been
periods in history when the world was without borders, and citizens,
products and money could move freely. Theories have been developed
to explain and advocate free trade and globalization from the macro
point of view, and to explain the process of globalization from the
business point of view (see Insert 1.1). As far as the business world is
concerned, before the 1970s the most frequently used terminology,
when referring to integrated operating across the world, was
‘international’, ‘multinational’ or occasionally ‘transnational’. Even if we
ignore the East India Company, which started in the early seventeenth
century, modern corporations such as Unilever, Nestlé and Procter &
Gamble were operating all over the world by the end of the nineteenth
century. They are known as multinational companies, but nobody would
have called them global fifty years ago. The global concept appeared in
the early 1970s and progressively invaded boardrooms, classrooms and
business literature. What is the exact meaning of globalization? What
forces generated it? And what are the consequences for firms?
   There is no single, well-established definition of globalization. Here we
will posit as a working definition: ‘The process by which people,
products, information and money can move freely across borders’. As a
consequence, markets may tend to converge, providing opportunities for
the standardization of products, for production centres to be (re)located
to more economical places, and for R&D labs to be distributed across
countries. As we will see, this implies a more centralized management of
firms. Before examining the many aspects of corporate life impacted by
the phenomenon of globalization, we will first look at the
macroeconomic, technological and political factors that have generated
such a global environment, and then look at how firms have changed
their operations to take advantage of the new opportunities this
environment offers.


  Insert 1.1 Theories of globalization

  Macro theories: free trade and globalization

  The theory of comparative advantage, proposed in the early
  nineteenth century, stated that under free trade, nations will
  maximize wealth if they export the goods for which they have a
  relative advantage (Ricardo 1967). The idea is that countries should
  concentrate on the production of those goods and services at which
  they are most efficient and export them, whilst buying in other
  products from abroad. The total global production of goods and
  services will then be higher than when separate countries try to
  produce everything themselves. As a theoretical example, imagine
  two similar industrial parks, one in Malaysia and the other based in
  the Philippines, both with 10,000 workers, and both producing
  electrical products. Both sites employ 5,000 workers (half their total
  effort) to produce computer motherboards and 5,000 workers to
  make videogame consoles. The Malaysian operation is able to
  produce 10 million motherboards per year and the Philippines 8
  million, while the Malaysians produce 200,000 consoles to the
  Philippines’ 250,000. Malaysia has, therefore, demonstrated a
  comparative advantage over the Philippines for motherboards and
  Philippines has a comparative advantage over Malaysia for
  consoles. The total global output in the current situation will be 18
  million motherboards and 450,000 consoles per year. For better
  results, Malaysia should concentrate on producing motherboards
  and trading them, while the Philippines should focus its efforts on
  consoles. In this situation the global output rises to 20 million
motherboards and 500,000 consoles, marking an 11 per cent
increase in both motherboards and consoles.

World-system theories suggest that globalization is the product of
nationalistic, capitalistic, colonial and international expansion
(Wallerstein 1974, 2000; Robinson 2004). For instance, from the
sixteenth century the colonial expansion of Spain, Portugal, the
Netherlands, Britain and France created a global market for a
certain number of commodities. Later, the USA and Japan became
colonial imperialistic global powers. In other words, since the
appearance of modern shipping vessels and navigation systems,
truly global trade has become possible.

Marxism views globalization as the result of the tendency of the
return on capital to decrease, forcing capitalists to find new
territories to exploit. Lenin argued that the ultimate stage of
capitalism was impe-rialism (Marx and Engels 1848; Lenin 1917).
The argument is that the profits of firms tend to decrease because
of intense competition. Firms react by merging and looking for
markets outside their national boundaries, creating global
oligopolies, for example Holcim Group, Apple and Samsung.

Network society theories see globalization as the result of the
vested interests of a transnational capitalistic class (managers,
politicians, bureaucrats, bankers), as well as of supranational
organizations such as the WTO, UN and EU (Castells 1996; Sklair
2000). Advances in telecommunications and the rise of the internet
have made it possible for business to be conducted globally, both in
terms of financial transactions and internationally connected
production systems.

Technological cultural theories propose that information
technologies have led to a convergence of culture (Robertson 1992;
Ritzer 1993). Very similar in essence to McLuhan’s ‘Global Village’
concept,1 these theories state that thanks to technology, people in
different countries increasingly tend to share a common culture and
consumer choices, making global product design and production
possible and desirable.

The World 3.0 theory, developed by Professor Pankaj Ghemawat,2
holds that humanity has followed four stages of social, political and
economic organization and trade. The first stage (World 0.0) refers
to the prehistoric period in which societies were organized into
thousands of tribes surviving by hunting and gathering, and where
human interactions were limited to those between the members of
tribes, with practically no external trade. The second stage (World
1.0) refers to the formation of political entities in the forms of cities
or empires (China, Sumer, Aztec), governing several thousands to
millions of peoples (mainly farmers) under a political power
structure (an empire or kingdom). Mostly economically self-
sufficient, these states introduced some international transactions,
but limited exchange mechanisms (such as trade via the Silk Road).
World 2.0 started in the seventeenth century with the colonial
expansion of European powers and the creation of nation states.
The first multinationals, such as the British East India Company,
extended their reach as far as Asia. During the nineteenth century,
thanks to transportation and communication innovations,
multinational firms from Europe, America and Japan developed.
After a decline between the two world wars, global development
exploded and saw the formation of the modern business
juggernauts such as Nestlé, General Electric and Siemens that we
see today. The driving force of World 2.0 in the postwar years was
a progressive deregulation and integration of markets. World 3.0 is
predicted to evolve, following the global financial crisis of 2008, as a
world that is characterized by a high level of market integration but
also a high level of government regulation, in what has been called
semiglobalization.

Micro theories: corporate globalization

Transaction cost theories posit that multinational firms result from
the economic benefits of internalizing costs of transaction rather
  than relying on contracts to regulate contact with international
  economic agents (Buckley and Casson 1976).

  Resource-based theories suggest that firms take advantage of their
  proprietary assets (technology, capital) to expand their presence in
  international markets (Barney 1991).

  Resource seeking theories explain the global expansion of firms by
  their desire to obtain resources they don’t have (Dunning 1993).

  The Eclectic (OLI) theory of International production asserts that
  internationalization of firms is determined by three sets of forces:
  the ownership of a competitive advantage (O), the location of an
  attractive external country where to invest (L) and the benefits of
  internalizing the operations (I) (Dunning 2001).

  The Uppsala model of Internationalization (Johnson and Vahine
  1977) proposes that the process of internationalization is a process
  of gradual resources commitments based on the knowledge about
  foreign markets possessed by a firm and the perceived risks and
  opportunities.




Globalization from a macro perspective
Historically the world has experienced various periods of intense trade
across continents and free movement of people and capital (see Insert
1.2), in particular during the nineteenth century after the Napoleonic
wars. After a decrease due to the two world wars of the twentieth
century, several factors generated the emergence of the new economic
environment that we call ‘global’.3 During the 1950s and the 1960s the
convergence of several political, technological, social and competitive
factors began to shape this new environment.4


  Insert 1.2 History of globalization
In a book published in 2020, Jeffrey Sachs, from Columbia
University, states that ‘Humanity has always been globalized, since
the dispersal of modern humans from Africa some seventy thousand
years ago’.5 He identifies seven distinct periods (ages) of
globalization determined by the interplay of three major sets of
factors: Geography, Institutions and Technology, and Know-how.
The seven ages are:

1     Paleolithic (70,000–10,000 BCE): When the migration from the
    African nest of Homo sapiens reached sites along the Middle
    East coastal areas.
2     Neolithic (10,000–3000 BCE): Further global expansion in this
    period is linked with the development of agriculture progressively
    replacing hunting and allowed the settlement of population in the
    temperate zones of Europe and the Middle and Far East.
3     Equestrian (3000–1000 BCE): Fostered by the progressive
    domestication of animals (goat, camel, sheep, cattle, horses).
    The horse allowed the transport of goods on long distances and
    permitted the migrations and trade to northern Europe, India and
    China.
4     Classical (1000 BCE–1500 CE): Fostered by the creation of
    empires motivated by political and/ or religious motives.
    Mongols, Roman, Assyrian, Persian, Greek, Arab, Ottoman
    empires are examples of such cultural, economic global
    developments.
5     Ocean (1500–1800 CE): The development of trans-oceanic
    sailing vessels initiated the Spanish and Portuguese implantation
    in America and Asia followed by British, Dutch and French
    explorers, creating the first global capitalism and colonialism
    illustrated by the advent of global trading houses.
6     Industrial (1800–2000 CE): The steam engine was the initiator
    of industrialization in Britain in the nineteenth century, which
    cumulated with the technological development of communication,
    transport and the expansion of the multinational firms.
  7    Digital (twenty-first century): The global connectivity of the
      internet and artificial intelligence offers multiple possibilities for
      designing new global transactions reinforcing the world.



What are the factors that push for globalization?

Political factors: liberalization of trade and investments

The main political factor has been the stabilization of postwar peace in
Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)
countries, which allowed the development of free trade among nations.
Two main organizations have been the source of trade liberalization – the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) (replaced by the World
Trade Organization (WTO) in 1995) and the European Union – to which
one may add the progressive opening of emerging nations to foreign
investments.
   The GATT, founded in 1946 by twenty-three nations, initiated a series
of negotiations, called ‘rounds’, aimed at reducing tariff concessions to
encourage the liberalization of trade. The Kennedy Round in the mid-
1960s, the Tokyo Round in the early 1970s, the Uruguay Round in late
1980s and the Doha Round in 2001 created an environment that
fostered international trade, as shown in Figure 1.2.
Figure 1.2 Tariff reductions and international trade
Source: Authors’ creation using data from various World Bank Indicators.

   The European Economic Community (EEC), later subsumed by the
European Union (EU), was established on 25 March 1957 by the Treaty
of Rome, which was signed by Belgium, France, Italy, Germany,
Luxembourg and the Netherlands. The aim was to create a common
market, and economic and political integration among the six member
states. As a result, goods, people and financial flows could move freely
across countries. During the 1970s, the EEC was enlarged with the
entry of the UK, Ireland and Denmark, followed by Spain, Portugal and
Greece in the 1980s, Sweden, Austria and Finland in the 1990s, and
Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, Malta,
Hungary, Estonia, Cyprus, Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia in the early
2000s. In 1993, a single market which eliminated most legal and
bureaucratic barriers was established among the member states. In
1999, a single currency, the euro, was adopted by nineteen countries,
and passport-free travelling without any border controls was allowed
between twenty-six countries as part of the Schengen Agreement signed
in 1985. Companies could integrate their operations across Europe to
take advantage of a market of 500 million customers and gain
economies of scale by specializing and concentrating their operations. In
2020 the UK Left the European Union.
  In addition, from 1948 to 2020 the number of preferential trade
agreements (PTA) and regional trade agreements (RTA) notified to the
GATT/WTO increased from practically none to around 600 in 2020 with
an acceleration in the twenty-first century. In particular from 2008, more
than 300 PTA and RTAs were notified to the WTO, including the United
Kingdom’s post-Brexit generalized systems of preferences in January
2021.


  Insert 1.3 Some global definitions
  Globalization is the process by which people, products, information
  and money can move freely across borders.

  Global industries are industries in which, in order to survive,
  competitors need to operate in the key world markets in an
  integrated and coordinated way. Industries such as aerospace,
  computers, telecommunications, appliances, power generation,
  insurance and corporate data transmission are examples of global
  industries. In these sectors it is difficult to sustain competition if one
  does not cover (nearly) the whole world as a market, and if one
  does not integrate operations to make them cost and time effective.

  Multinational companies are the companies that operate in
  various countries outside their countries of origin.

  Global companies are multinational companies that operate in the
  main markets of the world in an integrated and coordinated way.
  Companies such as HSBC, Apple, Nestlé, Unilever and Samsung
  are global companies.

  ‘Born global’ companies have become multinational immediately
  upon or soon after being founded. Examples of born global
  companies include Airbnb, Netflix, Spotify and Uber.

  Globalizing is the phenomenon whereby the competitive structure
  of industries changes progressively from multinational to global.
  Industries such as telecommunications, processed food, personal
  care and retail are in the process of globalization.

  Global integration and coordination are the organizational
  structure and management processes by which various activities
  scattered across the world are made interdependent. As examples,
  global manufacturing integration implies the specialization of
  factories and the cross-shipment of parts between different
  production sites; global product development requires the
  coordination of various research centres and marketing teams;
  global account management demands that different country
  subsidiaries provide a service according to a plan negotiated
  centrally, and so on.


   Finally, in parallel with what was happening in the industrialized
countries, the developing nations progressively adopted more positive
attitudes towards foreign direct investment (FDI). At first, investment
laws were designed to attract foreign investors in order to induce them
to produce locally, but over the years the legislation has evolved toward
a more open stance, favouring cross-border investments. According to
the WTO, between 1958 and May, 2021 3,760 Bilateral Investment
Treaties (BIT) that promote and protect investment in two respective
countries or block of countries were signed and 2,298 are still in force.

Technological factors: transport, communication, education,
science and production technology

Another set of ‘push factors’ for globalization are related to technological
progress, which has lowered the cost of transport and communication,
as well as the unit cost of production, through economies of scale or the
localization of productive capacities and sourcing in low-cost economies.
   Air, rail and road transport and the use of containers in maritime
logistics have reduced the cost of shipping goods from country to
country, as well as, in the case of air transport, enabling the travel of
business managers. The development of telecommunications has
reduced the cost of information exchange between business units
scattered around the globe. On the scientific front, from 2005 to 2018
the percentage of foreign university-level students studying in OECD
countries increased from 5 per cent to 9 per cent.6
    Progress in manufacturing technology has given tremendous impetus
to the need to concentrate production in world-class factories benefitting
from huge economies of scale, thus encouraging the rationalization and
integration of production systems. Besides manufacturing concentration,
companies have also been able to source components or services from
low-cost countries, either by setting up their own operations or by
purchasing locally. Global value chains involving production of goods in
two or more countries grew from 10 per cent of world GDP in 2000 to
14 per cent in 2017.7
    Another motivating factor behind globalization is the need to quickly
amortize increasing R&D costs. Companies are confronted with dual
pressures: R&D budgets are increasing and the time elapsing between
invention and commercialization is becoming shorter. For instance, it took
fifty-two years for television to move from invention to large-scale
commercial adoption and production, but the same step took nine years
for the first personal computer (IBM 610) and just three years for the
iPhone. For major appliances, it took seven years in the 1950s and
1960s to introduce a new model versus two years in the 1970s. The life
cycle of Intel’s 286 microprocessor was seven years while the 486
model lasted five years.8 As a consequence, companies need to launch
products and services at the same time in all major markets to be able
to recoup their investments.
    Finally, the advent of the internet has fostered the immediate transfer
of media, social networking and the long-distance communication and
online transactions that constitute the backbone of global communities
today. During the Covid-19 pandemic, the global aspect of technology
has been further demonstrated by the unprecedented global scientific
cooperation necessary to develop new vaccines.

Social factors: convergence of consumer needs

International air transport and the diffusion of lifestyles by movies and TV
series have increased the brand awareness of consumers worldwide.
Brands like Sony, Nike, Levi’s or Coca-Cola are known nearly
everywhere. Kenichi Ohmae,9 in his book Triad Power, has discussed
the ‘Californization of society’ – teenagers in São Paulo, Mumbai, Milan
or Los Angeles listening to the same music, using the same iPhone,
wearing the same pair of blue jeans and using TikTok, Instagram and
YouTube. The convergence of customer behaviour and needs is also
facilitated by the urbanization and industrialization of societies. The less
cultural and the more technical the product, the more likely that it can be
standardized and appeal to consumers in all countries: smartphones,
PCs, elevators, cranes, robots and internet platforms are products for
which national differences do not matter much.

Competitive factors

The 1960s saw the emergence of Japanese competitors in markets that
traditionally had been dominated by American or European companies.
Japanese, and later Korean, firms adopted a global approach at the
very beginning of their international expansion. One of the reasons
behind this global outlook was that they did not have many national
subsidiaries, while their international expansion coincided with the
opening of trade barriers. From the start they designed products for the
world market, creating global brands such as Sony, Panasonic and
Hyundai, and their efficient production systems gave them a cost
advantage in electronics and automotive parts. Competitors had to adopt
a similar strategy to survive. During the 1990s emerging competitors
from China, India and Brazil also entered the global game. China
became ‘the factory of the world’ by offering offshore low-cost
production sites. In other parts of the emerging world, local
manufacturers in Thailand, Indonesia, Vietnam, Turkey and Mexico
provided OECD industries and retailers with low-cost garments, toys,
tools and furniture.
   Another competitive force that pushed companies to globalize was the
globalization of customers. During the 1970s, Citibank created a Global
Account Management Unit to service corporate customers with
international subsidiaries. Similar phenomena developed in the IT,
telecom and consulting sectors, and also in the luxury segment of fashion
and perfumes. Figure 1.3 summarizes these political, technological,
social and competitive ‘push factors’ that have fostered globalization.
Figure 1.3 Globalization push factors


What are the factors that work against
globalization? The localization push
As mentioned earlier, globalization is associated with some degree of
standardization of products and practices plus a high level of
coordination and integration of activities in a company’s value chain.
Factors that oppose standardization, coordination and integration
therefore work against globalization. One can group those factors into
four main categories: cultural, commercial, technical and legal.

1. Cultural factors: attitudes, tastes, behaviour and social codes
When the consumption of a product or a service is linked to traditions
and national or religious values, global standardization is not effective.
Some products – for instance, Kretek (tobacco and clove) cigarettes in
Indonesia or the Pachinko (pinball) game in Japan – are unique to one
society and their globalization is nearly impossible, although one can
argue that with innovative marketing it may not be. For example,
Beaujolais nouveau wine, the consumption of which was typically a
Burgundian and Parisian bistro event before the 1970s, is now available
in Tokyo, Paris or New York; while Halloween (trick or treat)
masquerades, a traditional US festivity, are now common in Europe. This
shows that even highly culture-specific items can be appreciated by
customers all over the world. However, it remains true that food and
drink tastes, social interactions in business negotiations, attitudes
towards hygiene, cosmetics or gifts vary from culture to culture, thus
hampering a global product design or approach. In the Asia Pacific and
Latin American regions, for instance, personal relationship building rather
than legal contracts is the normal way to conduct business. One has to
spend time and effort in building these personal ties, which in a US
context would be largely considered a waste of time.
   Religion may play an important role in limiting the effects of
globalization, particularly in the domains of national cuisine or cultural
products (such as films).
   Nationalism can also be considered as an obstacle to globalization to
the extent that it promotes a return to trade protectionism and a retreat
from international agreements in certain societies (as shown by Brexit).

2. Commercial factors: distribution, customization and
responsiveness

In some sectors, distribution networks and practices differ from country
to country and as a consequence the ways of managing the network,
motivating dealers and distributors, pricing and negotiation are hardly
amenable to global coordination. For instance, the marketing and
distribution of pharmaceutical products differs according to the country’s
health system. In some countries, such as Japan, doctors sell medicine,
while in other countries pharmacists sell to patients who get a refund (or
not) from their insurance company, while in yet other cases
pharmaceutical products are delivered freely to the patient.
   Responsiveness to customers’ demands, as well as customization, are
other factors which almost by definition defeat standardization. Private
savings or current accounts to individuals, loans to small and medium-
sized enterprises (SMEs), mortgages, consulting activities and individual
architectural designs are activities in which a local presence and a fast
reaction to customers’ requirements are needed for competitive
success. Although some practices, processes or methodologies can be
standardized on a worldwide basis (consulting, engineering, architecture
or auditing, for example), specific customer requests have to be taken
into consideration, thus limiting globalization.

3. Technical factors: standards, spatial presence,
transportation and languages

Technical standards in electrical, civil, chemical or mechanical
engineering can create a burden for global companies. The economies
of scale and cost benefits of global integration and standardization
cannot be exploited fully when technical standards vary greatly. In
certain cases, standards can be changed without major modification –
for instance, mobile telephony does not represent a major hurdle for
global manufacturing. In other instances, standards are not that easy to
accommodate and require a specific local production line. This is mainly
the case for beer or foods, for instance.
   Spatial presence is a requirement for those industries which need to
occupy a physical space in order to create and distribute their products
and services. Retail banking, retailing, hotels, local telephone services,
hospitals, entertainment and car dealerships are examples of industries
where the services have to be produced locally. There are still some
advantages in globalizing certain tasks (such as the back office functions
of accounting, data processing, global sourcing and transfer of best
practices), but the location constraint still limits globalization benefits. In
the future, e-commerce is likely to reduce the spatial constraint
considerably, particularly when it comes to non-physical services such as
banking or movies on demand. E-commerce in physical products can
also eliminate the spatial constraint as far as the customer interface is
concerned, but it is still hampered by logistical constraints. The example
of Amazon demonstrates that it is possible for a customer in Paris or Rio
de Janeiro to order a book but the customer will have to bear shipping
costs that may eliminate the basic cost advantage of the e-bookstore.
This is the reason why Amazon has established 175 fulfilment centres
outside the USA, thus moving toward a more multinational business
design.
   The impediments of transportation are important if the cost of
transport cancels out the benefits of concentrating production. Bulk
commodities such as cement or basic chemicals are more economically
produced in local plants than in global centralized units, despite the scale
economies that could be gained: the cost and the risks of transport
cancel out the benefits of centralized production. Similarly, when
production systems are not scale-intensive and small productive units
can achieve similar costs to large plants – in plastic moulding, for
instance – there are no major benefits in building a global production
system.
   Finally, language can be an additional constraint to global approaches.
This can be significant when it comes to customer services, of which
training services, personal banking, personal telecommunication and
retailing are examples. English has become more and more the ‘global
language’, and industries such as graduate business training or high-level
consulting can use English without bothering with translation.

4. Legal factors: regulation and national security issues

Governments impose regulatory constraints that often work against
globalization, either because they limit the free flow of personnel
(regulation on working permits), cash (exchange controls, tax), goods
(customs duties, quotas), or data (censorship, the internet and controls
on electronic data interchange), or because they impose localization
constraints (local content, local ownership and joint venture policies).
   Over the years, thanks to the GATT/WTO, multilateral agreements
(EU, ASEAN, NAFTA and so on), and International Monetary Fund (IMF)
requests, government legislation is leaning towards more open contexts
that favour globalization. However, some constraints still exist. Some
sectors such as telecommunications, media, banking and insurance are
still tightly controlled and some countries (such as China and India) or
regional blocs (EU) still impose local content requirements.
   Finally, governments are deeply concerned with national security and
will prevent foreigners gaining too much control of their defence or
strategic sector industries. In the defence sector, for instance, where
R&D costs are huge and economies of scale significant, globalization
would appear to be fully justified, but is in fact limited because of
national security constraints. Since the 2001 World Trade Center attack
in New York and similar incidents in London, Madrid, Moscow, Beirut,
Nairobi and Paris, governments have adopted measures that constrain
the movement of people and products. Security has become the chief
priority.
   Recent geopolitical issues, translated into commercial wars, have
affected the globalization process. One can give as an example the
constraints put on Huawei’s development of its 5G network, the ban on
export to Iran imposed by the USA and the economic and financial
sanctions imposed on Russia in 2022.
   Finally the Covid-19 pandemic and the Russian invasion of Ukraine
have illustrated the fragility of global value chains in pharmaceutical
energy, food, or semiconductor products. For instance, the production of
medical masks is concentrated in China and this generated a shortage in
the USA and Europe, leading these countries to relocalize production
domestically.
   Figure 1.4 summarizes these localization push factors.
Figure 1.4 Localization push factors


The benefits of localization

The benefits of localization, instead of a global integrated and
coordinated approach, are essentially customer-oriented benefits that
give firms increased market power and ultimately an increased market
share. Those benefits are proximity, flexibility and quick response time.

•   Proximity is the capability to be close to the market, to understand
  the customer’s value curve.
•    Flexibility is the capability to adapt to customer demands in the
  various dimensions of the marketing mix: product/service design,
  distribution, branding, pricing and services. Ultimately, flexibility leads
  to customization.
•   Quick response time is the ability to respond at once to specific
  customers’ demands and increased resilience in case of global shocks
  (e.g. pandemics).

   These three benefits are closely interrelated: proximity provides the
basis for flexibility and flexibility provides the basis for a quick response
time. All three give a competitive advantage when local cultural,
technical, commercial and legal contexts vary so much from country to
country.

The benefits and pitfalls of globalization: the macro picture

In 1817, David Ricardo in his theory of comparative advantage10 showed
that it was beneficial to nations to specialize and trade goods in which
they had a comparative advantage. This laid the foundation of trade
theory, which itself is the underlying foundation of globalization: in a
perfect global setting where goods, people, data and money flow freely,
companies can adopt an integrated and coordinated approach to their
operations and the competitive battlefield would be the world. Since
Ricardo’s time, partisans and adversaries of free trade have exchanged
heated debates about the advantages and disadvantages of
globalization for society. Table 1.2 summarizes those arguments.
Table 1.2 The societal benefits of globalization


 Arguments in favour of                            Arguments against globalization
 globalization
 Creates overall wealth for all                    Imposes a massive strain on
 nations because specialization                    labour forces both in developed
 increases trade                                   countries (job destruction) and
                                                   developing countries
                                                   (sweatshops, child labour)

 Reduces inflation because of cost                 Standardizes customer tastes.
 efficiencies                                      Reduces diversity
 Benefits customers because of         Induces concentration of power in
 price reductions arising from cost    a few global corporations
 efficiencies                          Introduces a ‘law of the jungle’
                                       leading to domination by the
                                       strongest multinational
 Better allocation of natural,         Harms the environment because
 financial and human resources         of unrestrained resources
                                       exploitation of natural resources
                                       such as forests
 Reduces corruption because of         Reduces the capacity for nations
 free-market trade                     to protect their national interests,
                                       cultures and values

   The globalization debate gained political visibility during the 1990s. In
Europe, the Treaty of Maastricht (signed in 1992) adopted the euro as a
single currency, generating a heated debate on the loss of sovereignty
and the advantages of further political and economic integration. In 1995,
the North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) created similar
discussion. In Asia, after the 1997 financial crisis, globalization was
questioned and, at the end of that decade, the WTO at the Seattle
ministerial conference could not set up an agenda for launching another
trade round because of public criticism of the whole concept of
globalization. Since 2000 and particularly after the world ‘subprime’ crisis
of 2008, there has been growing debate about the future of
globalization. Some have announced the ‘end of globalization’ or
‘deglobalization’: a concept that will be discussed later in the chapter.
   Despite all this political turmoil, some analysts think that the world is
becoming progressively more integrated. According to the consulting firm
McKinsey,11 by 1997 the value of truly global markets represented
approximately $6 trillion out of a total world output of $28 trillion (21 per
cent). In 1999, the firm anticipated that by 2030 the proportion of global
markets would amount to $73 trillion out of $91 trillion (80 per cent).
However, there is an ongoing debate about the future of globalization
(see Chapter 15), fuelled by the pandemic that struck the world in 2020
and the Russian invasion of Ukraine in early 2022.
Globalization at the level of the firm
As mentioned previously, many firms from Western Europe extended
their operations outside their country of origin into the Americas, Asia or
Africa, most of them in the form of colonial implantations, from the
seventeenth century onwards. Arab merchants penetrated the Southeast
Asian region in order to organize trade. Following the industrial
revolution, large corporations started the capitalistic movement of
international investments in infrastructure projects and in the setting up of
subsidiaries. The first wave of modern multinational expansion began in
1880 and declined after the First World War. This wave was made of
‘free-standing’ firms, legally incorporated in their native country but
extending rapidly internationally via the creation of local subsidiaries.
Except for the resource-based multinational, each local subsidiary was
self-standing. By the end of the nineteenth century, firms such as Nestlé,
Lever Brothers (Unilever), General Electric and Bayer were
representative of this generation of multinational corporations. A second
wave of corporate international expansion through local subsidiaries took
place after the Second World War, launched by US and European
companies and augmented later by Japanese companies. In the 1960s
local subsidiaries were extended to more and more countries but started
to progressively lose their autonomy and become part of an integrated
global network.12 Classically, over time firms have followed a sequential
evolution, from being exporters, to the setting up of foreign subsidiaries,
to the integration of operations across the world.13 From local, they
became international, then multinational and now global. More recently,
‘born global’ companies have assumed a global setting from the
beginning,14 a development that will be discussed in Chapter 5.
   To illustrate the traditional phenomenon of globalization let us take the
simplified example of Otis Elevator Company.


EXAMPLE 1.1 Otis Elevators

Otis Elevator Company started in 1853 in New York and was soon
selling elevators in Canada and Europe as well. In the 1960s it had many
plants, service operations and sales offices all over Europe, where the
company grew organically as well as by acquisition. Each subsidiary
fought for a share of local markets. Competitors were either local
national companies or subsidiaries of rival multinational companies. The
Otis subsidiaries managed all the activities of the value chain (marketing,
design, production, installation and service). For instance, the French
subsidiary designed elevators for the French market, manufactured them
in French factories, sold them with French sales forces and maintained
them with a French after-sales organization – the management was
essentially French. In Germany, Otis designed, manufactured, sold,
installed and serviced elevators for the German market; and the same
applied in nearly every major country – see Figure 1.5. In smaller
countries, products or components were exported from major countries’
subsidiaries. The operations were self-contained in each country and the
results were evaluated on a country-by-country basis. Such a situation
had prevailed for over five decades, since the early 1900s. It
corresponds to what was referred to as a multinational or multi-domestic
world, in which multinational companies like Otis were competing in each
main market of the planet.
Figure 1.5 A multinational competitive configuration – Otis Elevators in the 1960s

   By the end of the 1960s several key elements played a role in
changing this competitive structure. One country manager at Otis
perceived that the European business context was changing. First, the
Treaty of Rome in 1957 had created the European Economic Community
(EEC), at that time called the Common Market. This meant that tariff
barriers across Europe were coming down; it became viable to produce
components in one country and export them to other countries. This
allowed the company to concentrate on the production of components in
a network of specialized factories across Europe, each of them making
one product category or one component. Components could be cross-
shipped for ultimate installation in the various client countries. In 2015
Otis operated all over the world as six regional organizations, with 200
factories and twelve engineering facilities.

  The benefits of such a system were obvious – by concentrating
production the company could benefit from economies of scale, and
some of the reduction in costs could be passed to the customers in the
form of lower prices, leading to higher market share. Products could be
designed for an entire market (standardized). Instead of having country
segmentation one would have pan-European segmentation based on
utilization, that is, high-rise buildings, low-rise buildings and so on.
   Standardization would be possible only if customers in Europe –
architects, engineers, real estate develop-ers, housing departments and
so on – shared a common view about what an elevator should be.
Despite the differences in housing organization across countries,
elevators were essentially technical products with very little cultural
content and therefore able to be standardized. Only selling methods
would vary from country to country. The Otis management perceived this
as an opportunity to gain market share in Europe and engaged in the
pan-European strategy depicted in Figure 1.6 in which design centres
and factories were specialized and interdependent.




Figure 1.6 A global competitive configuration – Otis today
   From a management point of view this was a radical change: country
managers were no longer responsible for the whole value chain, but only
for part of it. They were obliged to coordinate with other countries
through the European headquarters. This led to a very successful story.
By 1975, Otis had captured 40 per cent of the European market, while
limiting penetration from Japanese corporations which were rapidly
expanding and succeeding internationally. If Otis had not adopted the
regional strategy it would have been uncompetitive and competitors
were obliged to adopt a similar strategy if they wanted to survive. This
concept was further expanded and today Otis is organized by product
line on a worldwide basis. There are still country subsidiaries, which take
care of installation, maintenance, public relations and personnel, but
product development and manufacturing are coordinated globally by
product line. From being a ‘multinational’, Otis has become the ‘global’
company shown in Figure 1.6.


   The phenomenon of an active coordinated and integrated presence in
the main regions of the world is what ‘global company’ means. It is
important to observe that this change gave Otis a competitive advantage
and that competitors were obliged to adopt a similar approach if they
wanted to survive. Globalization is neither a consultant’s fad nor a
management buzzword, it is a competitive imperative in an increasing
number of industries. The development of information technologies, the
fluidity of capital markets, the advent of megamergers in the telecoms,
computer, oil, pharmaceutical, power and car industries – all of these
demonstrate that business firms are increasingly behaving as if they
were already living in a global world (see Insert 1.3, Some global
definitions).
   Historically, the globalization process, according to the stage theory of
internationalization,15 can be best described as shown in Figure 1.7. It
has evolved in three steps: 1) international trade: export and sourcing; 2)
multinational investments: setting up value-adding activities in different
countries; and 3) integration and coordination of activities across regions
and countries.
Figure 1.7 The three steps in globalization


Globalization called into question: deglobalization

From a historical perspective, the globalization phenomena experienced
at the end of the twentieth century were not new. Some economic
historians have observed that at the end of the nineteenth century the
world was more ‘global’ than it is today. Obviously, the state of affairs
was different: global powers such as Britain, France and the United
States were globalized because of their colonial influence. Trade barriers
were limited, and people, money and goods moved easily across
borders. Nationalism, epitomized by the First and Second World Wars,
provoked protectionism and restriction of exchange. Then postwar
technological, political and economic factors, as described previously,
reintroduced globalization and generated new management paradigms.
But at the dawn of the twenty-first century, while globalism seemed
triumphant, some dissonant voices are increasingly calling into question
the concept of a borderless, free-market, monocultural world after the
financial ‘subprime’ crisis, Covid-19 pandemic and more recently
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine; there has been an increasing number of
arguments stating that the world is entering a period of de-
globalization.16 Table 1.2 summarizes those arguments.
   The globalization debate gained political visibility during the 1990s. The
dissenting voices are still increasing in the countries that have benefited
the most from globalization – the OECD countries – and their point of
view can be best summarized by Rodrik:17

•        ‘First, reduced trade barriers and investment accentuate the
    asymmetry between the groups that can cross international borders
    (either directly or indirectly, say via outsourcing) and those that
    cannot.’ These semi-skilled and unskilled workers can be replaced by
    other cheaper workers abroad. This undermines the social fabric in
    the developed world.
•    ‘Second, globalization engenders conflicts within and between nations
    over domestic norms and the social institutions that embody them’
    (such as pension funds, social security, values and culture).
•   ‘Third, globalization has made it increasingly difficult for governments
  to provide social insurance.’ The welfare state is under attack.
• ‘The question therefore is how the tension between globalization and
  the pressures for socialization of risks can be eased. If the tension is
  not managed intelligently and creatively, the danger is that the
  domestic consensus in favour of open markets will ultimately erode to
  the point where a generalized resurgence of protectionism becomes a
  serious possibility.’

   From a macroeconomic point of view, deglobalization is characterized
by the decrease or slowing down of growth in international flow of trade,
investment, capital and people migration (Figures 1.8, 1.9 and 1.10).
Figure 1.10 presents the Global Trade barometer, an indicator
established by DHL, the logistics company. It shows that from 2011–
2019 international trade growth declined following the ‘subprime’ crisis,
then regained momentum up to 2017 but declined again since to become
negative.
   From a political viewpoint deglobalization is materialized by the
upsurge of economic nationalism, leading to trade disputes and
discriminatory measures. Economic and political factors are interrelated:
international trade declines negatively affect the desire for MNCs to
invest in foreign lands and consequently impact on capital flows and
migrant workers.18




Figure 1.8 World trade evolution since 1870
Source: PIIE, https://www.piie.com/research/piie-charts/globalization-retreat-first-time-second-
world-war.




Figure 1.9 Migration Chart
Source: Authors’ own using data from
https://www.un.org/development/desa/pd/content/international-migrant-stock.
Figure 1.10 DHL Global Trade Barometer from 2013 to 2019
Note: The DHL Global Trade Barometer forecasts short-term trade growth over a three-month
period.
Source: https://lot.dhl.com/global-trade-barometer-gtb/reports/global/.

   Altogether these deglobalization trends can be due to the combination
of several factors:

   a  A slowdown in global demand
   b  Protectionist policies
   c   Calamities such as wars, pandemics and industrial hazards in key
     countries
   d Societal scepticism about the benefits of globalization (caused by
     the unequal distribution of benefits of growth and rising inequalities,
     the loss of cultural identity and the inability to influence decisions).

The Covid-19 pandemic crisis and the invasion of Ukraine in 2022 fuelled
a resurgence of nationalism all over the world. Economic nationalism
was epitomized by the policy of President Trump under his slogan ‘Make
America great again’ and engagement in a series of tariffs increases
against China and Western Europe. Similarly the decision by Britain to
leave the European Union can be attributed to this social discontent. The
Global Trade Alert Index created by the University of St Gallen noted
that since 2011, the number of state interventions discriminating against
international trade outpaced the number of interventions favouring
international trade. The most frequent measures are import tariffs,
subsidies to local companies and limitations for foreign bodies to
participate in public procurement. Out of the 21,092 discriminatory
measures implemented since 2019, 88 per cent were related to trade
discrimination (Global Trade Alert 2021).
Globalization in turmoil: Covid 19 and the Ukrainian war

Whether the future will consist of further globalization or an increase in
deglobalization due to the Covid-19 pandemic and to the Russian
invasion of Ukraine in early 2022 is still being debated. In the short and
medium terms, the global economy will be subject to important
‘disruptions in commodity markets especially food and energy, logistic
networks, supply chains and foreign direct investment’. (World Bank
report 2022.)
   What is for certain is that one can expect direct economic results to
be at least as devastating as in the years following the financial crisis,
with the drop in global demand ‘compounded by the effect of
governments protecting their own and implementing policies to boost
local employment at the expense of imports’ (Toulan 2020). Others
stress the uncertainties surrounding future growth in various industrial
sectors and their impact on global trade and investments (McKinsey
Global Institute March 2021). For Yip (2021), the final economic global
outcome of the pandemic depends on three factors:

  a   The attitude of national policies with respect to limitation of tree
    trade and repatriation of production to domestic territories
  b The fiscal and investment policies to stimulate demand
  c The attitude of multinational companies with respect to their global
    value chains and safety of supply.

The stimulus package of $1.9 trillion in the USA, the €1.8 trillion from the
European Union recovery plan and the $500 billion from China are
indicative of the fact that public policies are determined to encourage
both growth in demand and in productive capacities.

The benefits and pitfalls of globalization for business

The benefits of globalization can be assessed from two points of view:
the business or competitive perspective and the macro, socioeconomic
perspective.
  The benefits viewed from the macro/socioeconomic perspective have
been discussed earlier, so this section will focus on the benefits to a
corporation of adopting a global strategy.
  Business and competitive benefits can be grouped into four
categories: cost, timing, learning and arbitrage.

•   Cost benefits. These come, on the one hand, from economies of
  scale owing to the standardization of products and processes as well
  as increased bargaining power over suppliers of raw materials,
  components, equipment and services; and, on the other hand, from
  the ability to organize a logistic and sourcing network based on
  location factors. Examples of economies of scale through
  standardization are numerous. Otis Elevators was able to lower the
  cost, and hence the price, to consumers of elevators in Europe by 30
  per cent by introducing a pan-European manufacturing system.
•    Timing benefits. These come from a coordinated approach to
  product launching in the early stage of the product life cycle. In a
  multinational setting, each subsidiary is more or less free to adopt
  products for its own market. This is sometimes called ‘the shopping
  caddy’ approach to product adoption. Such an approach generates
  inefficiencies in the management of the product life cycle since the
  optimal volume is obtained only after a lengthy process of product
  adoption by all subsidiaries. A classic example of the deficiency of the
  ‘shopping caddy’ approach is Philips America’s refusal to adopt the
  V2000 video system, developed by Philips’ mother company in the
  Netherlands. As a result, this innovation was not able to gain the
  volume of sales it needed in the most important world market and lost
  competitiveness compared to Japanese manufacturers such as Sony
  and Matsushita. In the late 1960s, the ‘international product life cycle’
  theory of multinational product introduction postulated the progressive
  adoption of products over time according to the level of economic and
  scientific development of countries (see Figure 1.2). Such a theory is
  no longer valid. When industries globalize, waiting too long to launch a
  product can be fatal, particularly if the product has a short life cycle,
  which is more and more frequently the case. For example, Microsoft
  launched Windows 2000 at the same time everywhere in the world.
•     Learning benefits. These accrue from the coordinated transfer of
    information, best practices and people across subsidiaries. Such
    transfer eliminates the costly ‘reinvention of the wheel’ and facilitates
  the accumulation of experience and knowledge. In Thailand, Unilever
  formulated and implemented an innovative strategy to produce and
  market ice cream. The Thai experience served as a template for other
  countries in the Asia Pacific region, giving the company a first-mover
  advantage. This example illustrates the benefits that can be gained
  from a coordinated transfer of best practice.
•     Arbitrage benefits. These come from the advantages that a
  company can gain by using the resources in one country for the
  benefit of its subsidiary in another country. These can be direct
  competitive advantages or indirect cost advantages. A competitive
  advantage can be gained by playing a ‘global chess game’: for
  instance, engaging in a price war in one country in order to tie up the
  resources of competitors in that country, thus depriving them of cash
  flow which could be used elsewhere. This strategy was used by the
  Korean car manufacturer Hyundai, who avoided targeting European
  car companies in their home countries. Instead, they entered the UK
  market with the Pony car model. In the UK continental European
  competitors enjoyed a strong position and were very profitable. To
  counter the Korean assault European firms were obliged to lower their
  prices, dimin-ishing their cash flow that could have been used to
  reinforce their competitiveness in other markets. Another type of
  arbitrage comes from differential cost elements such as taxes,
  interest and possibly risk reduction through the pooling of currencies.

These four benefits are real but achieving them is subject to certain
conditions, and their adoption has to be measured against the real
competitive advantage they provide to the firms adopting them.
  The benefits in cost reduction obtained by economies of scale are
contingent upon the market responsiveness to standardization and
whether customers are price sensitive. If customers are not responsive
and prefer tailored products and services to standardization, a global
approach is less appropriate. A similar reasoning applies to the benefits
of timing. As for purchasing power, it may be limited for culturally
sensitive services such as advertising.
  The benefits of learning are positive if the experience gained in one
country is applicable to another. If this is not the case, there is a timing
deficit: the time spent in realizing that one has made a mistake plus the
time to learn the new environment. When Disneyland Paris opened near
Paris, Disney transferred its know-how and operational methods to
France but encountered a lot of cultural and legal problems in
implementing these. It is estimated that around two years were lost to
adjust the format to local conditions.
   The benefits of arbitrage can be offset by the cost of managing the
arbitrage and any legal barriers to it that may exist. In the case of tax
arbitrage, governments are careful to ensure that global companies do
not abuse their arbitrage power.
   Despite those limitations, more and more companies recognize the
competitive benefits of globalization. However, one should be aware
there are still some factors that work against globalization and in favour
of localization.

The global/multi-local mapping
Two sets of forces – globalization and localization – shape the
competitive structure of industries and induce companies to configure
their worldwide business systems with the right mix of coordination,
integration and decentralization. Global/multi-local mapping is a tool that
has been developed to position industries and industry segments
according to the relative importance of each set of forces. Figure 1.8
represents a mapping for various industries, while Figure 1.9 does the
same for various segments of the banking industry.
   The mapping in Figures 1.8 and 1.9 reveals that industries and
segments can be broadly positioned into three types of competitive
situations:

•      Type I: Global forces dominate and firms in those industries can
    sustain competitive advantage by operating across the world in a
    coordinated way. There are few advantages to push for local
    adaptation of products, services and approaches. Efficiency, speed,
    arbitrage and learning are the competitive drivers. These industries
    are global, as in the case of microchips, bulk chemicals or civil
    aircraft.
•      Type II: Local forces dominate and flexibility, proximity and quick
    response are determining capabilities for competitive advantage.
    Firms can operate independently in different countries; their
    approaches are different from country to country. Food retailing,
    consumer banking or voice telephony fall in this category.
•     Type III: In these industries there is a mix of global and local forces
    at play and competitiveness cannot be achieved without achieving the
    benefits of global coordination and, at the same time, the benefits of
    flexibility, proximity and quick response time. This positioning is
    increasingly becoming the dominant competitive battleground for a
    vast majority of sectors.




Figure 1.11 Global-local mapping: different industries have different competitive requirements

   Global/multi-local mapping can be used to assess a situation at a point
in time or to anticipate evolution over time. It can also serve as mapping
for the various activities of the value chain. As we will see in Chapters 7,
8 and 14, a good understanding of industry positioning will help the
formulation of business and country strategies, as well as the
implementation of an effective organizational design.
   In online Appendix 1.1 there is a questionnaire that will help analysts
and managers to position their business on the global/multi-local
mapping matrix.
Figure 1.12 Global-local mapping: different segments have different competitive requirements –
example of banking




   MINI-CASE 1.1

   Pharmaceutical industry: a global and local industry

   The discovery and crafting of drugs dates back to antiquity,
   however, small-scale production began in the late eighteenth
   century. This was followed in the mid-nineteenth century by mass
   production and the founding of firms including Merck, Squibb,
   Upjohn, Pfizer and Eli Lilly in the USA; Sandoz, Hoffman LaRoche in
   Switzerland; Bayer, Hoechst in Germany; Beecham, Wellcome in
   the UK; and Clin-Byla in France. At the beginning of the twentieth
   century, some of the early players opened foreign subsidiaries that
   were mainly transatlantic. The First World War, which began on 28
   July 1914 and ended on 11 November 1918, put a stop to the trend.
   In the 1920s, foreign expansion restarted. Despite this, by the end
   of the Second World War in 1945, the industry was a collection of
national domestic players exporting products and producing in a
small number of foreign subsidiaries.
   The discovery of penicillin and insulin changed the industry’s
economics. It marked the need for capital to fund research and
development (R&D) as well as the industrial assets of production.
After the 1950s, there were three major developments: 1) the
increasing cost of R&D, coupled with the birth of biotechnologies; 2)
the concentration of the industry through mergers and acquisitions;
and 3) the globalization of production. The 1970s to the 1990s
marked the end of patent protection that led to the development of
generics and the birth of biotechnologies.

1    R&D

Figure 1.13 shows the evolution of R&D costs. It illustrates the
increasing capital required for the discovery, testing, approval and
commercialization of drugs. The figures are averages and the
ranges can be high. For instance, for the period between 2005–
2019 the average cost is $1,400 million, but the range varies from
$670 million for anti-infective drugs, to $6,000 million for cancer
immunotherapies.




Figure 1.13 Total cost of drug development (average US$ m)
Source: Authors’ calculation from Wouters, McKee and Luyrens (2020).

   In addition to the large sums required, drug development is also a
lengthy process. The pattern of drug development is shown in
Exhibit 1.14. The time to recoup initial investment is relatively short
during the period of patent protection (fifteen years) compared with
the development time (twelve years). This encouraged firms to
enlarge their markets and open subsidiaries or acquire companies.
In addition to the increase in R&D, new technologies based on
biotechnologies emerged forcing traditional pharmaceuticals to
invest in their development either internally or through acquisition or
alliances with biotech firms.

2    Mergers and acquisitions

The concentration of pharmaceutical firms followed two trends:
First, domestic mergers such as the creation of Novartis that
resulted from the merger of four Swiss companies: Sandoz, Ciba-
Geigy, Hexal and Chiron. Similar examples include SmithKline and
Beecham with Glaxo in the UK. Second, global mergers illustrated in
Figure 1.15 with the creation of Sanofi (France, Germany, USA).




Figure 1.14 Pattern of pharmaceutical R&D
Source: Authors’ illustration based on various sources.
Figure 1.15 An example of global M&A in the pharmaceutical industry: a German, American
and French group

From 1999 to 2020, there was a large increase in global mergers
and acquisitions, in particular with the acquisition of biotechnologies
and genetic engineering firms (Table 1.3).
Table 1.3 Major global acquisitions and mergers from 1999 to 2020




Source: Various sources. * indicates biotechnology and genetic engineering firms.

3    Globalization of production

Before the post-1999 acquisition fever, global pharmaceutical firms
had established a network of productive capacities across the globe
to capitalize on the growth of markets. This enabled them to be
close to the market; overcome constraints of localization in certain
countries; and to organize a global value chain to benefit from low
cost of production for some elements. Table 1.4 shows the number
of manufacturing and R&D facilities of major pharmaceutical groups
in 2019.
Table 1.4 Manufacturing and R&D facilities outside country of origin




Source: Companies’ websites.

4    The production of generics

After a patent expires, generic drugs can be produced at a lower
cost. Traditional large pharma firms have created subsidiaries that
specialize in this type of production; however, a significant
proportion of production comes from emerging countries, in
particular India (Table 1.5).
Table 1.5 Major producers of generics
Source: Companies’ websites.

5    Pharmaceutical distribution and retailing

Pharmaceutical distribution varies according to geography and
regulations. In OECD countries, private wholesalers and distributors
largely supply drugs and medicinal products to hospitals, clinics and
retail pharmacies. Some hospitals and retail phar-macy chains buy
directly from manufacturers and receive products through a
manufacturer-appointed logistics company. However, in the US and
the EU, the majority of drugs are delivered by wholesalers and
distributors (Figure 1.16).




Figure 1.16 US pharmaceutical distribution channel
Source: Yadav and Anupindi, Case study in FIP Report on Pharmacists in the Supply Chain,
2018.
   Pharmaceutical full-line wholesalers are still central in the supply
chain, however, new distribution models have emerged in recent
years. In some territories direct sales from manufacturers has
increased while in countries such as in the UK, new distribution
models like Direct to Pharmacy (DTP) or Reduced Wholesale
Arrangements (RWA) have arisen.18
   Pharmaceutical distribution is a consolidated industry in OECD
countries,     for    example      in    the     US,     three      large
wholesalers/distributors – McKesson, Cardinal and Amerisource-
Bergen – control 90 per cent of pharmaceutical distribution.
Branded drug manufacturers (such as Johnson & Johnson) generally
used third-party distributors due to the cost of meeting the highly
regulated conditions for correct storage and transportation of drugs.
Generic drug producers, however, compete on price, therefore a
good distribution deal can leverage negotiation power for pricing.
   For pharmaceutical retailers, some have their own internal
distribution service while others opt for third-party companies. In the
US, three companies account for 50 per cent of the market (CVS
Pharmacy, Walgreens Company and Express Scripts Holding
Company). New retailers have emerged in recent years such as
Amazon and other online players.
   In emerging markets, affordability is a concern for access to
pharmaceuticals but also availability and reliability of supply chains.
Many private sector pharmaceutical supply chains in emerging
markets experience considerable inefficiencies that are caused by
complex networks of importers, wholesalers, distributors, sub-
distributors and a mass of retail outlets. There is often little tracking
of purchases resulting in stock-outs and substandard medicines
entering the supply chain. Technological innovation offers an
impactful way of increasing supply chain efficiency, especially for
markets with transport infrastructure deficiencies. Digital innovations
range in sophistica-tion from text messaging systems that update
stock levels, to ‘smart’ vaccine fridges that automatically send
stocking and temperature control reports.

6   Pharmaceutical industry and the production of a vaccine
    against Covid-19
The Covid-19 pandemic exposed the global nature of the
pharmaceutical industry, mainly with regard to the production of
vaccines. The alliance between BioNtech, a German Biotech
company, and the pharmaceutical giant, Pfizer, resulted in the
development in record time of a vaccine based on a new technology
– the RNA messenger. Astra Zeneca has also developed a vaccine
in Oxford, UK, which is now manufactured in factories throughout
Europe.

7    The global industry by 2020 and estimated future

In its 2020 Global Pharmaceutical and Healthcare report, Fitch
Solutions, an industry data analysis foundation, predicted a 33 per
cent increase in the industry’s total revenues.
Table 1.6 Pharmaceutical market historical data and forecasts, US$ bn (global 2019–2025)




f =forecast
Source: Fitch Solutions (2021: 23).


Questions

1   Have R&D costs fostered the globalization of the industry?
  Why/why not?
2 What is the benefit for a pharmaceutical company in dispersing
  its R&D facilities?
3  Why have emerging countries invested in the production of
  generics?
4 Why did it take less than one year to discover and produce a
  vaccine for Covid-19, when normally the average time to produce
  a new drug is estimated at twelve years, as shown in Figure
  1.14?

Summary and key points
1    Globalization is the process by which people, products,
    information and money can move freely across borders
    a   Four factors are pushing globalization:
        •    Political: liberalization of trade and investment reduces
          trade barriers
        •         Technological: technology reduces the cost of
          coordination and increases economies of scale
        •      Social: convergence of customer choices encourages
            standardization and global branding
        •       Competitive: emergence of new competitors induces
            integration companies to compete on all fronts with strong
            coordination

    b   Four driving forces are acting against globalization:
        •   Cultural: differences in taste, behaviour and social codes
          reduce the benefits of standardization of products or
          services
        •      Commercial: differences in distribution channels and
          customer interfaces require differentiated approaches to
          sales and marketing
        •    Technical: differences in standards, transportation and
          language constraints reduce the benefits of economies of
          scale, centralization and standardization
        •    Legal: differences in regulations and security measures
          limit free flow of resources and impose localization
          constraints.

2     A global company can be defined as a company that operates in
    the main markets of the world in an integrated and coordinated
    way. A global company carries out one activity (e.g.
    manufacturing) or a component of the activity (e.g. manufacturing
    one sub-part only) of the value chain in one country which serves
    the company’s worldwide market. A multinational company is a
    company that operates in the many markets of the world with
    little or no integration and coordination among operations.
3   Localization has three benefits:
    a   Proximity
    b   Flexibility
  c Quick response time to customers
4 Globalization has four benefits:
    a   Cost
    b   Timing
    c   Learning
    d   Arbitrage
5    The globalization of companies traditionally followed a three-
    step sequential development: export, multi-countries, global.
6  Deglobalization. There are recent trends indicating a decline in
  the speed of globalization. The Covid-19 pandemic reinforces
  this trend.
7 Global/multi-local mapping is used for identifying the competitive
  requirements of an industry or a business segment and can
  assist companies in formulating business and country strategies.

Learning assignments
1    Among the enterprises that you know, can you identify one that
    qualifies as a global company? Why?
2    In Figure 1.9, why are saving accounts positioned low on global
    approach and high on local approach while investment banking is
    high on global approach and low on local approach?
3     In Figure 1.8, food retail is positioned as a local business, with a
    very low globalization score. However, in the press, companies
    like Tesco, Walmart or Carrefour are described as ‘global
    retailers’. Explain this discrepancy.
4  What are the social factors that have pushed for globalization,
  and which have been pushing against it?
5 What are the benefits of having a local approach?
6    When the Otis Elevator Company introduced the change
    described in Example 1.1 (p. 18), there was a lot of resistance
    from the various heads of the European subsidiaries. Why? What
    arguments do you think the people hostile to globalization used?
7  Can Apple be classified as a global firm? Why did you make
  that assessment?
8 Can we qualify the champions of the digital economy such as
  Facebook, Amazon and Netflix as global?
9 What are the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic on globalization
  of industries and firms?

Key words
•   Arbitrage benefits
•   Global/multi-local mapping
•   Comparative advantage
•   Globalization
•   Global companies
•   International product life cycle
•   Global industries
•   Multinational companies
Web Resources
INSEAD:
http://knowledge.insead.edu/
Businessweek magazine:
https://www.bloomberg.com/businessweek
McKinsey Quarterly:
http://www.mckinseyquarterly.com/
UNCTAD:
http://unctad.org/en/Pages/Home.aspx
Boston Consulting Group:
https://www.bcgperspectives.com/
Provides information about the WTO:
http://www.wto.org/
Provides statistics and papers from the IMF:
http://www.imf.org/
https://www.globaltradealert.org/


     Companion website

     Visit the companion website at bloomsbury.pub/global-
     strategic-management-5e for a multitude of weblinks and
     resources, self-test questions for revision and appendices.



Notes
1    McLuhan (1962).
2    Ghemawat (2011).
3    James (2001).
4    Yip (1992).
5    Sachs (2020).
6    OECD (2021).
7    Xin L. (2019).
8    Ohmae (1985).
9    Ricardo (1967).
10   Lowell and Fraser (1999).
11   Jones (2005).
12   Johanson and Vahlne (1977).
13   Chetty and Campbell-Hunt (2003); Li, Qian and Qian (2015); Tanev (2012).
14   Johanson and Vahlne (op, cit).
15   Rodrik (1997).
16   Piketty (2013, 2019).
17   Cuervos-Cazurra et al. (2020).
18   Walter, Dragosits and Said (2012).


References and further reading

Books and articles
Altman, S. and Bastian, P. (2020) DHL Global Connectedness Index.
   https://www.dhl.com/content/dam/dhl/global/dhl-spotlight/documents/pdf/spotlight-g04-
   global-connectedness-index-2020.pdf (accessed 1 February 2022).
Baker, M. and Hart, S. (1999) Product Strategy and Management (London: Prentice-Hall).
Bank for International Settlements (2014) 84th Annual Report, Bank for International
   Settlements. http://www.bis.org/publ/arpdf/ar2014e.pdf (accessed 4 May 2017).
Barney, J. B. (1991) ‘Firm resources and sustainable competitive advantage’, Journal of
   Management, 17 (1): 99–120.
Bartlett, C. A. and Ghoshal, S. (1989) Managing Across Borders: The Transnational Solution
   (Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press).
Buckley, P. and Casson, M. (1976) The Future of the Multinational Enterprise (London:
   Macmillan).
Buckley, Peter J. and Hashai, N. (2020) ‘Skepticism toward globalization, technological
   knowledge flows and the emergence of a new global system’, Global Strategy Journal, 10:
   94–122.
Castells, M. (1996) The Rise of the Network Society, vol. I of The Information Age:
   Economy, Society, Culture (Oxford: Blackwell).
Chetty, S. and Campbell-Hunt, C. (2003) ‘A strategic approach to internationalization: a
   traditional versus a “born-global” approach’, Journal of International Marketing, 12 (1): 57–
   81.
Cuervo-Cazurra A., Doz, Y. and Gaur, A. (2020) ‘Skepticism of globalization and global
   strategy: Increasing regulations and countervailing strategies’, Global Strategy Journal,
   10: 3–31.
Dunning, J. (1993) Multinational Enterprises and the Global Economy (Wokingham:
   Addison-Wesley).
Dunning, J. H. (2001) ‘The Eclectic (OLI) Paradigm of International Production: Past,
   Present and Future’, International Journal of the Economics of Business, 8 ( (2): 17–190.
Evenett, Simon J. (2019) ‘Protectionism, State Discrimination and International Business
   Since the Onset of the Global Financial Crisis’, Journal of International Business Policy, 2
   (1): 9–36.
Fitch Solutions (2021) Global Pharmaceutical & Healthcare Report Q2, 2021.
Frankopan, P. (2015) The Silk Road, A New History of the World (London: Bloomsbury).
Fraser, J. N. and Oppenheim, J. (1997) ‘What’s new about globalization?’, McKinsey
   Quarterly, 2: 168–79.
Ghemawat, P. (2011) World 3.00, Global Prosperity and How to Achieve it (Boston, MA:
   Harvard Business Review Press).
Goodwin, J. (2001) Otis: Giving Rise to the Modern City (Chicago, IL: Ivan R. Dee).
Harvard Business School (1994) Global Strategies: Insights from the World’s Leading
   Thinkers (Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press). (This book contains a collection
   of Harvard Business Review (HBR) articles.)
Humes, S. (1993) Managing the Multinational: Confronting the Global–Local Dilemma
   (London: Prentice-Hall).
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (2007) Global Economic Prospects,
   Managing the New Wave of Globalization (Washington: World Bank).
International Telecommunication Union (2014), Measuring the Information Society Report.
   http://www.itu.int/dms_pub/itu-d/opb/ind/D-IND-ICTOI-2014-SUM-PDF-E.pdf (accessed 1
   February 2022).
James, H. (2001) The End of Globalization: Lessons from the Great Depression
   (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press).
Johanson, J. and Vahlne, J. E. (1977) ‘The internationalization process of the firm’, Journal of
   International Business Studies, 8 (1): 23–32.
Jones, G. (2005) Multinationals and Global Capitalism: From the Nineteenth to the Twenty-
   first Century (Oxford: Oxford University Press).
Lang, Austin (2020) Why Disney would like you to forget Disnyeland Paris’ opening day.
   https://allears.net/2020/06/18/why-disney-would-like-you-to-forget-disneyland-paris-
   opening-day/ (accessed 1 February 2022).
Langlet, F. (2013) La Fin de la Mondialisation (Paris: Fayard).
Lenin, V. (1917) Imperialism, the Highest Stage of Capitalism (available in Penguin Classics,
   2010).
Li, L., Gongming, Q. and Zhengming, Q. (2015) ‘Speed of internationalization: mutual effects
   of individual- and company-level antecedents’, Global Strategy Journal, 5 (4): 303–20.
Lowell, L. B. and Fraser, J. N. (1999) ‘Getting to global’, McKinsey Quarterly, 4: 68–81.
McLuhan, M. (1962) The Gutenberg Galaxy: The Making of Typographic Man (Toronto:
   Toronto University Press).
Marx, K. and Engels, F. (1848) ‘Manifesto of the Communist Party’, reproduced in Marx and
   Engels Selected Works (New York, NY: International Publishers, 1968).
Michel, D., Salle, R. and Valla, J. (1996) Marketing Industriel (Paris: Economica).
Micklethwait, J. and Wooldridge, A. (2000) A Future Perfect: The Challenge and Hidden
   Promise of Globalization (London: Heinemann).
Mirza, H. (ed.) (1998) Global Competitive Strategies in World Economy: Multilateralism
   Regionalization and the Transnational Firm (Cheltenham: Edward Elgar).
Mischke, J. (2021) Will productivity and growth return after the COVID-19 crisis? McKinsey
   Global Institute, March 2021,
   https://www.mckinsey.com/~/media/McKinsey/Industries/Public%20and%20Social%20Se
   ctor/Our%20Insights/Will%20productivity%20and%20growth%20return%20after%20the%
   20COVID%2019%20crisis/Will-productivity-and-growth-return-after-the-COVID-19-crisis-
   Report-final.pdf?shouldIndex=false (accessed 1 February 2022).
Novela, S. (2017) Case Study Disney in France for Cross Culture Management.
   https://bbs.binus.ac.id/ibm/2017/06/case-study-disney-in-france-for-cross-culture-
   management/ (accessed 1 February 2022).
OECD (2010) Measuring Globalization: OECD Economic Globalisation Indicators (Paris:
   OECD).
OECD (2021) International Students Mobility. https://data.oecd.org/students/international-
   student-mobility.htm#indicator-chart (accessed 1 February 2022).
Ohmae, K. (1985) Becoming a Triad Power (New York,
NY: McKinsey).
Peng, M. (2001) ‘The resource-based view and international business’, Journal of
   Management, 27: 803–29.
Piketty, T. (2014) Le Capital au XXI Siecle (Paris: Seuil); English translation: Capital in the
   Twenty-First Century (Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press, 2014).
Piketty, T. (2019) Capital et Ideologie (Paris: Seuil); English translation: Capital and Ideology
   (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2020).
Porter, M. E. (ed.) (1986) Competition in Global Industries (Boston, MA: Harvard Business
   School Press).
Porter, M. E. (1998) The Competitive Advantage of Nations (New York, NY: Free Press).
Prado-Wagner, C. (2014) ‘Trends on telecommunication/ICT services regulation and costs
   and tariff
policies’, Report to the ITU/BDT Regional Economic and Financial Forum of
   Telecommunications/ICT for Asia Pacific, Yangon, Myanmar, 1–2 September.
   https://www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Regulatory-
   Market/Documents/Myanmar/Session5_Prado_costing%20trends.pdf (accessed 6 June
   2017).
Prahalad, C. K. and Doz, Y. L. (1987) The Multinational Mission: Balancing Local Demands
   and Global Vision (New York, NY: Free Press).
Qualls, W., Olshavsky, R. W. and Michaels, R. E. (1981) ‘Shortening of the PLC: an
   empirical test’, Journal of Marketing, 45 (4): 76–80.
Rangan, S. and Lawrence, R. Z. (1999) A Prism on Globalization (Washington, DC:
   Brookings Institution).
Ricardo, D. (1967) On the Principles of Political Economy and Taxation (Homewood, IL:
   Irwin).
Ritzer, G. (1993) The McDonaldization of Society (London: Sage).
Robertson, R. (1992) Globalization: Social Theory and Global Culture (Thousand Oaks, CA:
   Sage).
Robinson, W. I. (2004) A Theory of Global Capitalism:
Production, Class and State in a Transnational World (Baltimore, MD: The Johns Hopkins
   University Press).
Rodrik, D. (1997) Has Globalization Gone Too Far? (Washington, DC: Peterson Institute for
   International Economics).
Rugman, A. (2000) The End of Globalization: A New and Radical Analysis of Globalization
   and What it Means for Business (London: Random House).
Ruta, Michele (Ed) World Bank. 2022. The Impact of the War in Ukraine on Global
   Trade and Investment. Washington, DC. © World Bank.
   https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/handle/10986/37359 License: CC BY 3.0 IGO.
Sachs, J. D. (2020), The Ages of Globalization: Geography, Technology, and Institutions
   (Chichester, NY: Columbia University Press).
Sklair, L. (2000) The Transnational Capitalist Class (London: Blackwell).
Tanev, S. (2012) ‘Global from the start: the characteristics of born-global firms in the
   technology sector’, Technology Innovation Management Review, 2 (3): 5–8.
Yip, G. (1992) Total Global Strategy: Managing for World Wide Competitive Advantage
   (Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall).
Yip, G. (2021) Does COVID-19 Mean The End For Globalization?, Imperial Business
   Insights, Forbes, January. https://www.forbes.com/sites/imperialinsights/2021/01/08/does-
   covid-19-mean-the-end-for-globalization/?sh=2425648671e4 (accessed 1 February
   2022).
Toulan, O. (2020) Globalization After Covid-19: What’s in Store? IMD, May.
   https://www.imd.org/research-knowledge/articles/globalization-after-covid-19-whats-in-
   store (accessed 1 February 2022).
UNCTAD (2008) ‘Countries continue to compete for FDI but not unconditionally’, Investment
   Brief no. 3.
UNCTAD (2015) World Investment Report 2015: Reforming International Investment
   Governance (United Nations).
Vahlne, J-E. and Johanson, J. (2020) ‘The Uppsala model: Networks and micro-foundations’,
   Journal of International Business Studies, 51 (1): 4–10.
Wallerstein, I. (1974) The Modern World System, vol. I (New York, NY: Academic Press).
Wallerstein, I. (2000) ‘Globalization or the Age of Transition?’, International Sociology, 15 (2):
  249–65.
Walter, E., Dragosits, A. and Said, M. (2012), ‘Access to pharmaceutical products in six
  European countries – analysis of different pharmaceutical distribution systems
  Farmeconomia’, Health Economics and Therapeutic Pathways, 13 (1): 33–41.
Witt, Michael A. (2019) ‘De-globalization: Theories, predictions and opportunities for
  international business research’, Journal of International Business Studies, 50 (7): 1053–
  77.
Wouters, O., McKee, M. and Luyrens, J. (2020) ‘Estimated research and development
  investment needed to bring a new medicine to market, 2009– 2018’, American Medical
  Association, 323 (9): 844–53. https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2762311
  (accessed 1 February 2022).
WTO (World Trade Organization) (2008) World Trade Report 2008: Trade in a Globalizing
  World (Geneva: WTO).
Xin, L., Meng, B. and Wang, Z. (2019) ‘Recent patterns of global production and GVC
  participation’, in World Trade Organization, Global Value Chain Development Report 2019.
  https://www.wto.org/english/res_e/booksp_e/gvc_dev_report_2019_e_ch1.pdf (accessed
  1 February 2022).


Journals

Business
Business Week: https://www.bloomberg.com/businessweek
Economist: https://www.economist.com/
Financial Times: https://www.ft.com/
Fortune: https://fortune.com/

Semi-academic
California Management Review: https://journals.sage-pub.com/home/cmr
Columbia Journal of World Business: https://www.journals.elsevier.com/journal-of-world-
  business
European Management Journal: https://www.journals.elsevier.com/european-management-
  journal
Harvard Business Review: https://hbr.org/
Multinational Business Review: https://www.emerald-grouppublishing.com/journal/mbr
Sloan Management Review: https://sloanreview.mit.edu/

Academic
Global Strategy Journal: https://strategicmanagement.net/
International Human Resources Management: https://www.tandfonline.com/
Journal of International Business Studies: http://www.palgrave.com/gp/journal/41267
Strategic Management Journal: https://strategicmanagement.net/
Chapter 2

The emerging global environment




  By the end of the chapter you should be able to:

  •  Understand the characteristics of emerging countries
  •   Identify the market and outsourcing opportunities they offer to
    global firms
  •    Understand the strategic development of competitors coming
    from emerging countries



Introduction
During the first two decades of the twenty-first century, the seemingly
unstoppable ascent of globalization that had characterized the 1970s,
1980s and 1990s continued its momentum but experienced significant
volatility due to geopolitical, economic and public health events. First, the
terrorist attacks in New York in 2001 induced the ‘War on Terror’ and
subsequent terrorist attacks followed in London, Madrid, Nairobi and
later in Paris. By 2016, the Middle East had become the theatre of
extreme tensions with the birth of the Islamic State, the Syrian and
Yemeni civil wars and underlying tension between Iran and Saudi Arabia.
That series of events led to a reconsideration of the free movement of
people and the adoption of drastic security measures. Second, in 2008 a
financial crisis (known as the ‘subprime crisis’) in the USA spread across
the world and generated a deep slowdown in global growth, trade and
investments. Finally, by 2020 the Covid-19 pandemic created a severe
reduction in growth on many dimensions of global economy (Figure 2.1).
A similar trend was observed in early 2022 with the invasion of Ukraine
by Russia.




Figure 2.1 Globalization indicators, 2000–2020 (base 100 = 2000)
Source: Authors’ own based on data from World Bank World Development Indicators and
UNCTAD, Statistical database 2020.

   Starting with the end of the Korean war and the decolonization of the
British and French empires, a group of countries traditionally named
‘developing countries’ embarked on economic development to become
what was known as ‘emerging countries’. By 2000, until the 2020s, most
countries in Asia and Latin America and some in Africa and Central
Europe exhibited rates of growth of foreign direct investment (FDI) and
international trade that were higher than in the industrialized countries
(Figure 2.2).
Figure 2.2 Globalization growth indicators, 2000–2019
Source: Authors’ own construction, using data from UNCTAD, Statistical Database 2016.

   By 2015, a significant slowdown in emerging countries had been
observed, particularly in China, Brazil and Russia, but this slowdown did
not hide the fact that emerging countries had become more and more
important in the global arena, both in terms of markets and competition.
A 2010 report on global development by the Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development (OECD) stated: ‘Over the past decade,
a group of emerging and developing economies has been leading the
way in terms of growth and development, shifting the world’s economic
center of gravity.’1 At the micro level, companies such as Lenovo or
Haier from China, Ranbaxy and Infosys from India, Embraer from Brazil,
Gazprom from Russia, SAB from South Africa and Petronas from
Malaysia joined the league of global players that traditionally was
occupied by Western or Japanese multinationals.
   In 2006 the Financial Times FT 500 Global list included just fifteen
firms from emerging countries; by 2020 that number had risen to 122.
The largest proportion (46 out of 122) of those firms were from China.
The growing international importance of companies and markets from
emerging countries is one of the key characteristics of today’s global
business environment. In this chapter we will describe the main
characteristics and development paths of emerging countries, as well as
strategies for dealing with them. Their attractiveness as markets and as
offshore operational bases will also be addressed, as well as their
competitiveness and the role of their global champions.

Emerging countries and their development
There is no clear definition of an ‘emerging country’. The phrase is used
often to describe countries that exhibit:

  a High economic growth;
  b The increasing development of a middle class;
  c A high degree of infrastructure and educational investment;
  d A progressive shift from agriculture to industry and services;
  e An economy in which market mechanisms play an increasing role;
  f The opening of their markets to international trade and investment.

  There have been several groupings of countries that qualified as
‘emerging’. By the 1980s the term ‘Asian Tigers’ was introduced to
qualify the tremendous economic success of four Asian countries or
territories: South Korea, Singapore, Taiwan and Hong Kong, which by
2020 had joined the group of industrialized countries or territories. In
2003, a Goldman Sachs paper identified four countries (Brazil, Russia,
India, China), to which South Africa was later added, to form the BRICS.
This group of five emerging giants was considered representative of the
growing importance of the emerging world in the global economy, and
were seen as likely to overtake most OECD countries. Later, in 2005,
Goldman Sachs introduced a new group named ‘The Next Eleven’.
Consisting of Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, South Korea, Mexico,
Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Turkey and Vietnam, it was thought that
these countries could potentially have a BRICS-like impact rivalling the
G7.2
  Following the fall of the Berlin wall and the dissolution of the Soviet
Union in the late 1980s and early 1990s, a new category of emerging
countries appeared in the international literature: the ‘transition
economies’. These consisted of the countries that were satellite states
of the USSR, such as Poland, Hungary and Czechoslovakia, or states
that were part of the union such as Ukraine. Some of these have
subsequently joined the European Union, thus leaving their emerging
classification.
   In this chapter, we will pinpoint some of the key characteristics of
emerging countries through the course of their historical development.
For the sake of simplicity, for most of the figures in this chapter we will
adopt the World Bank categories clustered by income level (Growth
National Income (GNI in US$) per capita):3

•  Low income countries: GNI/cap less than $1,026
•     Lower middle-income countries: GNI/cap between $1,027 and
  $3,995
•     Upper middle-income countries: GNI/cap between $3,996 and
  $12,375
• High income countries: above $12,376

Emerging countries are represented in the upper and lower middle-
income categories. A list of countries included in each category is given
in online Appendix 2.1.
   In this chapter we will identify three categories of emerging country:

1  The BRICS: these five emerging giants are considered
  representative of the growing importance of the emerging world in the
  global economy, and are likely to overtake most OECD countries in
  the not-so-distant future. Their profile is detailed in Appendix 2.1.
2 The newly industrial economies (NIEs) that have reached a
  degree of wealth, in terms of GDP per capita and industrial activities,
  similar to the traditional economies of Europe, North America and
  Australia–New Zealand. These NIEs can be found:
  a in the Middle East and Turkey or among oil-rich countries such as
     Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates;
  b      in Asia with the so called ‘tigers’ such as Hong Kong, Taiwan,
     South Korea and Malaysia;
  c     in Latin America. Argentina, Mexico, Chile do not belong to the
     BRICS but have nevertheless achieved a high level of
     industrialization and market economy. In this category we find
     companies that have achieved the status of global champion
        despite the fact that their domestic economies are still considered
        to be ‘developing’.

3    The industrializing economies: countries such as Egypt, Nigeria,
    Indonesia, Morocco, Tunisia, Ivory Coast, Philippines, Thailand,
    Vietnam and Colombia that have left the status of least developed
    countries and have achieved a significant level of industrialization and
    market economy.

Growth

As Figure 2.3 shows, one of the key characteristics of the emerging
world economies is that their pace of development has surpassed the
rest of the world. Among those, the upper-middle income countries are
by far the fastest growing, with China taking the lead. China’s GDP in
dollar terms overtook Japan as the second world economy in 2010. The
incremental growth of the five BRICs countries by themselves overtook
the G7 countries by $2,000 billion between 2010 and 2019.




Figure 2.3 GDP growth rates: emerging countries versus the world (1990–2019)
Source: Authors’ own construction using data from World Bank development indicators database,
http://databank.worldbank.org/data/reports.aspx?source=world-development-indicators.

   This incremental demand is due to three factors: a rapidly growing
urban middle class, investment in infrastructure and a drive to conquer
international markets.

Emerging middle class
The concept of ‘middle class’, although widely used by economists and
sociologists, is vague. The definition of the Swedish middle class, for
instance, would differ considerably from the definition in Indonesia. The
definition of middle class can be purely statistical (the population that
occupies the centre point on the distribution of income) or it can refer to
purchasing power (the population that can afford to purchase goods and
services beyond the traditional subsistence level but does not belong to
the country’s wealthy elite). When looking at doing business in emerging
countries, the second definition is the most relevant because the ability
of the consumer to afford to purchase products and services is what
drives demand. Interestingly, the demand for most mass consumer
goods and their related inputs is often triggered by the presence of an
affluent middle class.
   Emerging markets, particularly, experience what is known as the
‘middle-class effect’, which derives from the skewed original nature of
income distribution in emerging countries. At an early stage of economic
development, a large proportion of the population is poor and the
proportion of middle-class people is relatively low. With economic
development the proportion of middle-class people increases faster than
that of the poor (Table 2.1). This effect is more visible in urban centres
such as Shanghai,
   Beijing or Guangzhou, due to the huge inflow of foreign investment into
those cities.4 In 2009, an OECD report estimated that the global middle-
class population was 1.8 billion people consuming $21 trillion – of which
around 850 million people were from emerging countries, consuming
$7.5 trillion. The forecast was that 2.02 billion middle-class people from
emerging countries would be consuming $19 trillion by 2020, and 3.8
billion consuming $38 trillion by 2030.5 For its part, the McKinsey
Institute estimated that around 2 billion people in 24 emerging countries
were middle class and consumed $6.9 trillion per year in 2010, a figure
that it expected to rise to $20 trillion by 2020.6 Globally, the Asia Pacific
region is forecast to become the area with the largest middle-class
group (see Figure 2.4 and Table 2.1).
Table 2.1 Estimated evolution of middle-class populations in China, India and Indonesia (millions)




Source: Authors’ own construction based on data from: China – Barton et al. (2013); India –
Narayanswamy and Zainulbhai (2007); Indonesia – Rastogi et al. (2013). These are estimates:
there are no official records of middle-class demographic definitions.
Figure 2.4 Shares of middle class, 2015–2020
Note: Bubble size indicates actual spending in PPP dollars. Local currency units can be converted
to purchasing power parity (PPP) dollars. A PPP exchange rate reflects the number of units of a
country’s currency required to buy the same amount of goods and services in that domestic
market that one US dollar would buy in the USA. The figures for 2020 are estimated.
Source: Authors’ own construction based on Homi Kharas, The Unprecedented Expansion of The
Global Middle Class An Update, Global Economy & Development Working Paper 100, February
2017, Brooking Institute.

  The middle-class population, because of its ability to consume beyond
subsistence level, drives the demand in consumer goods (both durable
and fast moving) and services, as well as demand for the raw materials,
components and intermediate products that support these goods and
services.

Investment
The second driver of incremental demand is investment in infrastructure.
The proportion of growth in capital formation, representing investments
in roads, telecommunications, energy and similar infrastructure, over
GDP in emerging countries is above the average of industrialized high
income countries (Figure 2.5). In its 2008 World Investment Report, the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)
stressed the vital need for infrastructure in the developing world and also
the opportunities on offer to international, as well as local, firms for
investing in those much-needed infrastructure projects.7 An OECD report
in 2017 estimated that global infrastructure investment needs $6.3 trillion
per year over the period 2016–2030 to support growth and
development, without considering further climate action (relative to mid-
2016).8




Figure 2.5 Capital formation, 2001–2019
Source: Authors’ own construction calculated from World Bank development indicators,
http://databank.worldbank.org/data/reports.aspx?source=world-development-indicators.

  Infrastructure projects, because of their contribution to demand for
equipment, raw materials, services and labour, have a multiplier effect
on income and ultimately on demand.9
Opening of markets to international trade and
investment
The third driver of economic development in emerging countries is the
opening of their economies to international trade and investment. Since
the 1990s, emerging countries have seen a significant increase in their
inflow of FDI as well as their participation in international trade (Figure
2.6). Overall, industrialized countries dominate the total value of exports
($1.7 trillion versus $0.7 trillion for upper middle and lower middle
economies in 2019), but the weight of emerging countries is growing
very quickly. In 1999, the upper and lower middle income economies’
share of world trade was 18 per cent; by 2019 it rose to 27 per cent
while their flow of FDI rose from 13 per cent to 25 per cent during the
same period. This, together with the two other drivers of growth, makes
the emerging economies attractive to global, as well as local, firms.
Figure 2.6 Foreign trade and investment, 2001–2019
Source: Authors’ own construction based on several World Bank development indicators,
http://databank.worldbank.org/data/reports.aspx?source=world-development-indicators.


Progressive shift from agriculture to industry and services

Development economists have observed the structural changes
happening when an economy ‘takes off’ from a stage of poverty and low
economic growth to a progressive increase in national wealth fostered
by investments and trade. One key element of this structural change is
the relative decline of the agricultural share of GDP to the benefit of
industry and service sectors (Table 2.2).10
Table 2.2 Evolution from agriculture to industry and services


          Agriculture, forestry and fishing, value added (% of GDP)
                                                                         1990      2019
 BRICS

 Brazil                                                                  6.8       4.4
 India                                                                   26.9      16.01
 China                                                                   26.5      7.0

 Russian Federation                                                      15.4      3.4
 South Africa                                                            4.2       1.9



 Least developed countries (UN classification)                           35.6      16.8
 East Asia and Pacific                                                   10.3      4.7

 Latin America and Caribbean                                             8.1       4.7


 Euro area                                                               2.4       1.6
 North America                                                           3.0           0.9



 WORLD                                                                   7.6           3.4

Source: Authors’ own construction based on World Bank development indicators,
http://databank.worldbank.org/data/reports.aspx?source=world-development-indicators.

South America, what is known as the ‘Washington Consensus’11 has
induced emerging and developing countries to liberalize their economies,
privatize government-owned companies and deregulate government
control12 (see Insert 2.1). The extent to which China has adopted market
mechanisms is subject to debate since in practice government
intervention is still present in key strategic sectors.


   Insert 2.1 What is the Washington Consensus?
   The Washington Consensus is a series of prescriptions established
   in 1989 at the Institute of International Economics Conference in
   Washington, DC that reflect liberal policy recommendations for
   emerging countries. They are:

   •   Fiscal discipline: limit budget deficit
   •      Public expenditure priorities should be directed toward fields
       offering both high economic returns and the potential to improve
       income distribution, such as primary healthcare, primary
       education, and infrastructure
   •      Tax reform: broaden the tax base and adopt lower marginal
       rates; tax foreign holdings
   •    Interest rate should be market determined
   •    Maintain a competitive exchange rate
   •        Trade liberalization: eliminate quantitative restrictions and
       replace with low tariffs
   •    Liberalize inflow of foreign direct investment
    •  Privatization of state enterprises
    •      Deregulate to abolish entry barriers or restrictions on
      competition
    • Secure property rights
    Source: Author’s summary of some of the arguments in Williamson (1990, 1993).



Market mechanisms play an increasing role

After the progressive opening of China, which began under Premier
Deng Xiao Ping in 1979, and the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, the
centrally managed economies of China, Russia and Eastern Europe have
increasingly relied on market mechanisms for resource allocation. In
other parts of the world, especially in
   Market mechanisms do not mean that the emerging economies are
entirely free of control and intervention but that there has been for the
past thirty years the development of a buoyant market-led sector.

Emerging countries and their institutional and
business environments
In addition to the characteristics described in the previous section,
emerging countries share (to a certain extent, although to different
magnitudes) certain traits related to their institutional and business
environments:

•       Governance
•       Market imperfection
•       Ease of doing business
•       Importance of business conglomerates
•       A significant presence of ‘bottom-of-the-pyramid’ market segments.

Governance
Before the 1980s most emerging countries were governed by Marxist-
inspired or authoritarian regimes. Political turbulence such as the cultural
revolution in China or coups d’état in Latin America, Africa and Indonesia
marked the political life of many countries. As a result, the quality of
government and the formulation of policies were hampered by frequent
disruptions. Despotism, favouritism, corruption and the absence of clear
and impartial rules of law contributed to uncertainties in the conduct of
business affairs. The past four decades have seen changes in the
governance of emerging countries, which now favour more stable
regulations and judicial systems. However, there is still a distance
between emerging and OECD countries with regard to the quality of
governance. Figures 2.7 and 2.8 illustrate some world governance
indicators for 2019 for a selected number of emerging and OECD
countries.
   If we compare Figures 2.7 and 2.8 with Figures 2.1 and 2.2, we can
see a discrepancy that may be detrimental to the stability and continuity
of development.
Figure 2.7 Rule of law and control of corruption indicators (2019)
Source: Authors’ own construction based on several World Bank development indicators,
http://databank.worldbank.org/data/reports.aspx?source=world-development-indicators.
Figure 2.8 Government effectiveness and regulatory quality indicators, 2020
Source: Authors’ own construction based on several World Bank development indicators, 2020
http://databank.worldbank.org/data/ reports.aspx?source=world-development-indicators.


Market imperfection

In 1997 Professors Khanna and Palepu from the Harvard Business
School proposed that what differentiates emerging countries from OECD
countries is a number of market failures due to institutional contexts.
They pinpointed three such market failures: information problems,
misguided regulations and inefficient judicial systems. They later
redefined those market failures as ‘institutional voids’ that directly affect
business (Table 2.3).
Table 2.3 Possible institutional voids in emerging countries


 Political and        •    Uncertain stability of political cohesiveness
social     •  Lack of clarity in the distribution of power
systems    •  Strong interference in regulating business
           •  Uncertain protection of property rights
           •  Lack of independence of judiciary system
           •  Ethnic, religious, family, linguistic tensions
           •  Control of media
           •  Control or prohibition of non-governmental
             organizations
           • Corruption

Openness   •  Investments and preferential treatment for national
             companies
           • Bureaucratic constraints on foreign business
             concerning the opening of businesses, acquisition of
             property, transfer of dividends, local borrowing,
             imports and exports, labour and currency
Product    •    Lack of socioeconomic and market data
markets    •    Lack of information on quality of products and
               services
           •    Difficulties in accessing suppliers
           •    Weak logistical infrastructure
           •    Intricate distribution and retailing systems
           •    Poor product-related environmental and safety
               regulations
           •    Unsophisticated consumer credit and payment
               mechanisms
           •    Poor consumer protection
Labour     •  Weak educational system
markets    •  Poor mobility of personnel
           •  Ethnically/politically biased performance and
             remuneration of employees
           • Feeble protection of employees and restriction or
             prohibition of trade unions

Capital    •   Low liquidity of equity market
markets
                    •    Limited effectiveness of banking and financial
                        institutions in collecting savings and channelling
                        investments
                    •    Lack of transparency on financial performances of
                        corporations
                    •    Predominance of government banking sector
                    •    Poor protection for minority shareholders
                    •    High predominance of diversified conglomerates
                    •    Politically motivated allocation of licences
                    •    Unclear bankruptcy process

Note: Not all characteristics apply to all emerging countries, and some of
those can be found in some OECD countries. Source: Author’s own
construction based on findings of Khanna and Palepu (1997).
   Khanna and colleagues developed a set of questions that companies
must address in order to identify their institutional context in relation to
the political and social system, openness of government and
administration, product markets, and labour and capital markets. Their
overall conclusion is that investing companies need to understand these
differences and adapt their strategies accordingly, but they also need to
be aware of the rapid evolution in those contexts that may at any time
demand further adaptation.

Ease of doing business

Another way to look at a country’s environment is to observe their
friendliness to the conduct of business. Since 2002, the World Bank has
compiled an annual ‘ease of doing business ranking’. This gives a
composite ranking of eleven sub-indices, which measure how easily and
quickly business issues are dealt with (see Table 2.4).
Table 2.4 Ease of doing business indices


 Starting a business procedures: Time, cost and paid-in minimum
capital to start a limited liability company
 Dealing with construction permits: Procedures, time and cost to
complete all formalities to build operational facilities, and the quality
control and safety mechanisms in the construction permitting system
 Getting electricity: Procedures, time and cost to get connected to the
electricity grid, the reliability of the electricity supply and the cost of
electricity consumption
 Registering property: Procedures, time and cost to transfer a
property and the quality of the land administration system
 Getting credit: Movable collateral laws and credit information systems
 Protecting minority investors: Minority shareholders’ rights in
related-party transactions and in corporate governance
 Paying taxes: Payments, time and total tax rate for a firm to comply
with all tax regulations
 Trading across borders: Time and cost to export the product of
comparative advantage and import spare parts
 Enforcing contracts: Time and cost to resolve a commercial dispute
and the quality of judicial processes
 Resolving insolvency: Time, cost, outcome and recovery rate for a
commercial insolvency and the strength of the legal framework on
insolvency
 Labour market regulation: Flexibility in employment regulation and
aspects of job quality

Source: World Bank (2020).

  In Figure 2.9, a sample of countries’ (out of 189 countries examined)
ease of doing business scores shows that emerging countries tend to
have lower scores than traditional or newly industrialized economies. The
overall scores do not mean much, and for a deeper analysis one should
look at the individual subcomponents described in Table 2.4.
Figure 2.9 Selected ease of doing business scores, 2020 (From 0 = Not Easy, 100 = Easy)
Source: Authors’ own construction using data from World Bank,
http://www.doingbusiness.org/rankings.


Importance of business conglomerates
Conglomerates, in the forms of publicly or privately owned highly
diversified groups, are common in most emerging countries. As Khanna
and Pepalu have observed, ‘diversified business groups remain the
dominant form of enterprise throughout most emerging markets’.13 There
are several reasons for that situation. Khanna and Palepu attribute it to
institutional voids such as illiquidity of capital markets and politically
motivated resource allocation. In some cases, countries have abandoned
Marxist-inspired state management and given opportunities to individual
entrepreneurs, who are often close to the authorities, to take advantage
of the new opportunities opening in many sectors. This was the case
after the demise of the Soviet Union when many oligarchs took over
newly privatized state-owned enterprises. Similarly in China, ex-
bureaucrats and ‘red princes’ seized similar opportunities. In other cases
in less developed countries, postcolonial governments gave privileged
access to licences to affiliated business partners, who then entered
many industries. This was the case for overseas Chinese family
conglomerates in Southeast Asia and family groupos in Latin America. In
nearly all cases, the scarcity of financial and qualified human resources
made it easy for economic power to become concentrated in the hands
of a few large diversified groups. In the 1960s, South Korea, at the time
an emerging country, diversified chaebol (large family-controlled firms)
such as Daewoo, Samsung and Lucky Goldstar dominated the economy.
Over the years, with globalization, conglomerates have tended to reduce
their diversity in order to focus on their core strengths, but still play an
important role.

Significant presence of ‘bottom-of-the-pyramid’
market segments
As mentioned earlier, an emerging middle class generates strong
demand for fast-moving consumer goods as well as consumer durables.
This, in turn, creates demand for the supply of intermediate products and
natural resources along the value chain. However, emerging countries
also feature a large non-middle-class population, what C. K. Prahalad
called the ‘bottom of the pyramid’.14 According to Prahalad, in emerging
countries, the largest proportion of the population located at the lowest
level of income are willing to consume goods that are of good quality but
obviously at a price level they can afford, and with formulation and
packaging adapted accordingly. This population, contrary to conventional
wisdom, is brand conscious and, given that their aim is to become
middle class, multinational firms need to capture those market
opportunities and brand loyalty. This implies that in emerging countries
global firms are advised to adopt a dual strategy: one for the middle
class that looks more or less like their traditional approach, and one for
the bottom-of-the-pyramid customer that is very different. Table 2.5
shows the difference between these two approaches.
Table 2.5 Differences between traditional middle-class strategies and bottom-of-the-pyramid
strategies
 Traditional middle-class strategy            Bottom-of–the-pyramid strategy
 •          Value pricing based on            •      Find new price–performance
     differentiation and segmentation             relationships leading to quality
 •     Product life cycles of designed            at low prices
     obsolescence and renewal                 •    Products built to last
 •                Products, services          •                Products, services
     functionalities and packaging                functionalities and packaging
     are adaptation of industrialized             are ‘reinvented’ to fit local
     markets                                      conditions
 •      Advertising on mass TV and            •              Communication and
     media                                        advertising rely less on mass
 •     Products designed for ‘regular’            advertising and more on
     environments                                 educational campaigns using
                                                  government programmes and
 •    Urban focus
                                                  non-governmental organizations
 •    Transfer of technology
                                              •     Products designed for ‘hostile’
 •    Use of skilled resources                    environments
 •      Build supply chains similar to        •    Rural focus
     industrialized world
                                              •                Hybrid technology:
                                                  combination of advanced and
                                                  adaptation
                                              •    Unskilled work process
                                              •      Adapt supply chains to local
                                                  conditions

Sources: Based on concepts discussed in Prahalad (2005) and Dawar and Chattopadhyay (2002).

   At the opposite end of the spectrum, firms making luxury goods find
emerging markets very attractive due to the appearance of a class of
‘nouveaux riches’ who built their fortune by taking advantage of the
benefits of deregulation, economic growth and, to a certain extent, ‘wild
capitalism’. For example, the French company LVMH saw its revenue
from emerging countries rise from 2 billion euros in 2004 to over 21
billion in 2021.15 Emerging markets then accounted for 39 per cent of the
firm’s total revenues. Similar trends are observed in companies such as
Mercedes, BMW, Gucci and Swiss watchmakers.
   Altogether, emerging markets see dynamism in the three major
segments of the market: upper high-end nouveaux riches, middle class
and bottom of the pyramid (Figure 2.10). Each has its own
characteristics and offers opportunities to local and international firms
that approach it with the appropriate strategy.




Figure 2.10 The three segments in emerging markets


Emerging countries and global firms
For global firms the growth and opening up of emerging countries has
far-reaching consequences for market development, as well as for
sourcing and localization of production capacities. Also, emerging
countries have created strong firms that raise a competitive challenge to
the traditional global firms in their local as well as global markets.

Global firms’ strategies for emerging markets

Beyond the classic steps in strategic analysis and formulation that
require companies to perform a proper assessment of environments,
markets, and competition, emerging countries require three specific
considerations: 1) the kind of product/service redesign and adaptation
needed according to the selected segments; 2) the localization of
strategic capabilities; 3) whether to engage in strategic partnerships with
local firms.
Decide on the kind of service redesign and
adaptation needed according to the selected
segment
As seen earlier, there are three distinct market segments, each of them
offering high levels of growth opportunities. Global firms will have to
decide whether they want to concentrate on one segment or several.
This applies particularly to entering the bottom-of-the-pyramid segment
and designing products and services for it. This approach implies a
simplification of products’ characteristics. The three examples that follow
show companies adopting a dual strategy; one approach for the middle-
class segment and one for the bottom-of-the-pyramid segment.


EXAMPLE 2.1 The multi-segment approach in emerging
countries

Saurer

In 2003, Volkman (the German subsidiary of Saurer from Switzerland)
was a global leader in textile twist-ing machines. In China, the company
had achieved dominance in the high-end market but was not present in
the low-end market that represented 70 per cent of demand. The low-
end market was dominated by Chinese competitors that sold machines
at half the price of Volkman’s. The company had to decide whether to
develop a simple low-cost machine. The decision was difficult because
this type of machine was not part of the engineering culture of the
company. Eventually, after the mobilization of a team of young Chinese
and German engineers, they put a machine on the market that sold at a
competitive price for much simpler performance (although still of superior
quality to its competitors). This move proved very successful, not only in
China but in other emerging countries.

Unilever Brazil

In 1996, while Unilever was the dominant player in the detergent market
in Brazil, it developed and marketed ‘Ala’, which was targeted at low-
income customers in the northeast of the country. This detergent was
positioned as a perfumed hand-washing detergent giving the sensation
of cleanliness at an affordable cost.

General Electric

In 2010, General Electric in India launched the Mac 400, a portable
electro-cardiograph equipped with a small printer and rechargeable
batteries that doctors could transport easily and operate in remote
villages. This machine was priced at one-third of the price of
conventional machines.
Sources: Saurer – Ryans (2006); Unilever Brazil – Charndon (2004). Copyright © 2007 INSEAD;
GE Healthcare – Singh (2011). Copyright © 2011 INSEAD.



Decide on the localization of strategic capabilities
The practices of purchasing products in emerging countries (offsourcing)
and relocating manufacturing operations (offshoring) are not new, but
they increased considerably during the 1990s and 2000s. China has
been the main recipient of offshore plants, followed by Mexico and
Eastern Europe. On the service side, India has been a leading
destination for offsourcing IT and business processes. Previously,
offshoring and offsourcing were based solely on low costs and were
essentially limited to manufacturing and the procurement of parts,
components and original equipment manufacturing (OEM) products. For
instance, Walmart bought around $13 billion of Chinese products in 2004
and Carrefour purchased $1.6 billion. Nowadays, offshoring and
offsourcing encompass all elements of the value chain: R&D,
manufacturing and services. Although the cost advantage of buying and
producing in emerging countries can be significant (on average, 50 per
cent of the costs of production in the USA or Europe), global firms have
found other advantages too: higher flexibility and speed, better
responsiveness to change in environments, higher service orientation.
Figure 2.11 gives a pictorial representation of the advantages and
disadvantages of offshoring and offsourcing in the various elements of
the value chain.
Figure 2.11 Advantages and disadvantages of offshoring and offsourcing in emerging countries


Decide whether to engage in strategic partnerships
with local firms
While the authorities of emerging countries tend to welcome foreign
investors, they must also balance this with encouraging the growth and
development of national enterprises. They see foreign investors as a
source of knowledge that can be acquired. Foreign firms may benefit
from the support of local partners in order to speed their company’s
development and navigate the maze of cultural, social and political
intricacies. In some cases, governments force foreigners to ally with a
local partner when they consider that the industry is too strategic to be
left in the hands of foreigners, such as natural resources or defence.
When this is not the case, the decision is left to the investor who has to
weigh the benefits and costs of engaging in a joint venture, as will be
discussed in Chapter 8.

Emerging competitors

Until the 1970s, corporations from the emerging world were viewed as
exploiters of cheap labour or imitators of outdated technologies. This
perception started to change in the 1990s when some corporations
followed the development path adopted by Japanese firms such as
Toyota, Sony and Mitsubishi in the 1950s, and by Korean chaebols or
Taiwanese groups such as Acer in the 1970s. Big corporations from
China, Brazil, India and more recently Russia have climbed the global
competitive ladder described in Figure 2.12. Starting in domestically
protected markets or by exploiting natural resources, they progressively
moved up to become fully fledged global players.




Figure 2.12 The strategic development of emerging market champions

  From a competitive point of view, while multinational firms traditionally
concentrated their efforts on the differentiated segments of markets,
deploying their competitive advantages of technology and marketing
competencies, emerging market champions adopted a two-step
approach:

1    In their protected home markets they concentrated on the lower-end
    segments, benefitting from a low-cost base, from imported
    technology and from their knowledge of the local environment. They
  succeeded in building volume in a market that was largely ignored by
  multinational firms.
2 In the international markets they started by exporting low-priced
  products through OEM and distributors’ brands, and progressively
  built their own distribution network and later their foreign presence via
  acquisitions.

   Typical differences in patterns of internationalization in terms of speed,
pace, and deployment of competitive advantages found between the
traditional multinational companies from the developed world and the
multinational firm from the emerging countries are described in Table 2.6.
Table 2.6 Differences in internationalization patterns between traditional multinational companies
and emerging markets multinationals


 Globalization           Traditional multinationals New multinationals from
 characteristics                                    emerging countries
 Starting                Technology developed                 Low cost of input:
 sources of              in home country                        Natural resources
 competitive                                                    Labour
 advantages
 Pace of                 Sequential Recently                  Dominance in local
 development             born global                          markets followed by rapid
                                                              expansion in key markets
 Modes of                Foreign Direct                       Mainly acquisitions and
 development             Investments search for               alliances
                         wholly owned
                         subsidiaries
 Management              Complex structures:                  Simple structures: mainly
 systems                 matrix types                         geographical
 Human                   Large number of global               Few global staff Reliance
 resources               staff                                on local staff

Source: Author’s own construction based on various sources.
Emerging multinationals momentum
The 2020 edition of the annual report published by Cornell University
(Casanova and Miroux 2020) mentioned that ‘the leading firms of the
new millennium now come from new corners on the map. Eight out of the
20 largest economies qualify as emerging markets whose companies
are among the world’s most prized.’ The report quotes the evolution of
Emerging Multinationals in the Fortune 500 report for the period ranging
from 2010 to 2020 (see Figure 2.13).




Figure 2.13 Number of emerging market multinationals on Fortune Global 500

   Every year UNCTAD publishes a World Investment Report, giving a
view of the relative importance of multinational companies from emerging
countries.
   Between 2008 and 2018, the foreign assets of the 100 largest
multinational companies from emerging countries grew from $808 billion
to $2,581 billion (an increase of 210 per cent), and the number of their
foreign employees grew from 2.6 million to 4.6 million (a 77 per cent
increase). During the same period, the 100 largest non-financial
multinational enterprises worldwide saw their foreign assets increase by
51 per cent and their foreign employees by 8 per cent.
   Every year, the Boston Consulting Group (BCG) identifies 100
corporations from emerging countries with at least $1 billion of sales, a
minimum of 10 per cent of revenues generated, and 10 per cent of
foreign assets from overseas operations. BCG calls those companies
the ‘global challengers’. According to the latest report16 the global
challengers between 2011 and 2016 enjoyed an annual growth rate of
revenues significantly higher than the ones enjoyed by traditional
multinational companies operating in the same sectors (Table 2.7) of 18
per cent between 2000 and 2013, compared with 7 per cent for other
multinational firms. Table 2.8 presents a sample of global challengers
coming from different continents.
Table 2.7 Comparison of revenues growth rate between 2011 and 2016 between BCG Global
Challengers in various industries and traditional multinational companies


 Industry                                       BCG Global              Multinational
                                                Challengers             Global Peers*
 Health Care                                     25%                    3%
 Technology, Media and                           11%                    1%
 Telecommunication

 Consumer Goods                                  12%                    4%
 Industrial Goods                                10%                    –3%

* = Global peers are multinational companies operating in the same
sector
Source: BCG Global Challengers: Digital Leapfrogs, May 2018, Boston Consulting Group.

Table 2.8 Selected examples of global challengers from emerging countries
Sources: Authors’ own construction based on data from the various companies’ Annual Reports,
2019.

In a more recent report the BCG identified what it calls ‘Tech
challengers’ which according to the authors are ‘companies with the
ambition and potential to reinvent and reshape the industries in which
they operate. Their innovative advances, rapid growth, and expanding
global positions merit close attention.’17 Half of those Tech challengers
are coming from China.


   Insert 2.2 China: The New Incoming Global
   Giant
When China joined the World Trade Organization in 2001, its share
of global trade of goods and service was 3 per cent, however by
2019 it climbed to 10 per cent and to 18 per cent in terms of its
share of world manufacturing exports. During the same period the
USA’s share declined from 15 per cent to 11 per cent. Regarding
foreign investments inflow China’s share increased from 5 per cent
to 10 per cent.
   China became the ‘factory of the world’ with regards to low-cost
labour-intensive industrial goods. After 2015, China’s competitive
advantage in labour-intensive industry declined, but this was
replaced progressively by an increase in technology-intensive
sectors such as IT, health products, machinery and appliances, and
transportation equipment. According to a report from the NSB
National Science Board:
 In high-technology manufacturing industries (which totalled US$1.6 trillion in value-
 added terms in 2016), the United States and China were the largest global providers
 (31% and 24% of the global share, respectively); China’s output rose sharply over time
 and now exceeds that of the EU.18




MINI-CASE 2.1

Stefanini and the Global Digital Revolution
Stefanini – A Brazilian Global IT Player19

Founded in 1987 by Marco Stefanini in Brazil, Stefanini became one
of the largest ICT service providers in Latin America. However,
unlike most Latin American companies, Stefanini focused on
international markets, making it a truly global company. By 2020, it
was a $1 billion global provider of technology services, present in 41
countries, with 25,000 employees operating in 35 languages and
providing 80 solutions working in 20 industries.20 The company
offered a wide range of IT services, following the ‘one-stop-shop’
model. Through its Digital Services, Stefanini provided strategy and
technology consulting, helping customers innovate and transform
their business models, and adapt them to the market context of the
digital economy. These included:

•     Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) outsourcing operational
    processes such as purchasing and payroll.
•  IT Outsourcing (ITO) providing IT support services onsite.
•        Application Development Centres that centralized the
  development and integration of software according to client
  needs.
•     Selling licences and providing maintenance to large global
  software and hardware partners such as IBM, SAP, Oracle and
  Dell. Over the thirty-year period, with no external investment,
  Marco had taken on global competitors such as IBM, Tata
  Consultancy Services (TCS) and Accenture and had to contend
  with the vicissitudes of Brazil, a complex home base.

History

Stefanini IT Solutions’ first partner was IBM, a company that at the
time was undergoing issues with its mainframe training. Marco
expanded operations, offering training services to other companies.
In 1989, as the company started to take off, Brazil was undergoing
turbulent times economically. In the 1990s, the ‘Collor Plan’ blocked
all liquidity and the savings of the population in an attempt to control
inflation. Marco reduced operations and looked for new
opportunities – outsourcing applications and technical support
professionals.
   By 1993, Stefanini had reached its first million billing and
developed its first independent software factory in Brazil. In 1994,
as demand for application development and maintenance
accelerated, ERPs (Enterprise Resource Planning) emerged that
threatened IT outsourcing services because they were
standardized, low maintenance and did not require new
development. Marco saw it as an opportunity – the person who
carried out the services needed to be better qualified, therefore the
price of the service could be up to three times higher. In addition,
ERPs required new technical services such as infrastructure.
   As the internet was widely adopted by business and society in
Brazil and competition increased, Marco expanded internationally,
beginning in 1995 with its first acquisition in Argentina, followed by
further expansion in Latin America in 2000. Stefanini continued to
expand, moving into the US the following year and setting up
operations in Italy and Portugal in 2003. In 2005 a London hub was
created, and the first unit was created in India the following year.
   By 2009, Stefanini had a portfolio of global customers, including
J&J, GE and Caterpillar. CIOs
   were pleased with its service delivery, helping its entry into new
markets. Stefanini continued to expand, acquiring its largest
company in 2011: Tech Team. This was followed by the first non-IT
company the following year, Orbitall. The same year, Stefanini
launched its global brand ‘our DNA Powering Your Business’. The
company continued to acquire companies throughout the world with
acquisitions and joint ventures in cyber security and Internet of
Things (IoT), among others.
   Despite the company’s success and growth, Marco realized that
the industry was transforming radically; what had been successful in
the past would not work in the future. The effects of the digital
revolution applied to many of Stefanini’s activities. He knew the
company had to evolve the supply of products and services.
Stefanini’s sales and delivery models would also need to be
strengthened. Stefanini was creating a global ecosystem that
enhanced its ability to create unique solutions. It was also building
digital business solutions in workplace infrastructure and
applications services, among others.
   There were several options for further geographic expansion.
Stefanini could acquire more companies worldwide as it had in the
past or form strategic alliances with local or multinational technology
companies. However, some geographies could prove more
challenging. Did it want to target the US where there were many
customers but fierce competition? Should Stefanini pursue a similar
strategy to Johnson & Johnson where they had taken its successful
Brazilian operations and worked back-wards helping the company in
other ways? Another option was to bolster its presences in other
countries, for example key European markets such as the UK where
it had a small market share. Stefanini could expand through joint
ventures and/or create strategic alliances with local or multinational
technology firms. Its hubs and offices throughout the world could
facilitate this. Ultimately, Stefanini needed to decide which
‘geographical battles’ it should fight.
Source: Based on Monteiro, Rozman and Carrick, ‘Stefanini and the Digital Revolution:
Transforming and Being Transformed’, INSEAD case no. 09/2018-6328 (2017); Figures:
https://stefanini.com/en.


Questions:

1     What are the factors that have made Stefanini so successful
    over the company’s thirty-year history?
2    How and why did they expand globally?
3    How has technology impacted the business over the years?




MINI-CASE 2.2

Charoen Pokphand (CP)

When in 1920 the Chia brothers opened their first shop in Bangkok
selling seeds for farmers, they did not know that they were on the
way to launching the development of one of the most successful
global conglomerates in the Asia Pacific region. After the Second
World War, in 1953, they started the first vertical integration move
by opening an animal feed mill in their garage, which was soon
modernized. A series of developments followed drawing on their
knowledge of agricultural industries.
Table 2.9 Charoen Pokphand: diversification and globalization
  With a total turnover of $19 billion in 2019, CP is a significant
representation of the business drive of overseas Chinese
entrepreneurs that characterize the Southeast and East Asia region.
  The company website (https://www.cpgroupglobal.com/) states
that
    the CP Group has many business entities which comprise individual companies and/or
    groups of companies operating in multiple industries ranging from traditional backbone
    industries such as agriculture to technology–driven forefront industries such as e-
    commerce/digital. Moreover, these companies consist of both listed and private
    companies. Through business diversification we recognize new opportunities and adapt
    our businesses to remain competitive in evolving markets. And most important, the
    synergy resulting from our related businesses enable us to deliver higher quality and
    better products and services with greater value to consumers.


Questions:

1      Why can a company be so diversified and still be successful?
2      When looking at the internationalization of CP what kind of
     competitive advantages does it possess and in which part of the
     world?




MINI-CASE 2.3


BYD (Build Your Dreams)
Founded in 1995 by Mr Wang Chuanfu in Shenzhen, Southern China,
BYD (Build Your Dreams) is today the largest supplier of
rechargeable batteries in the world and has diversified into
electronic components, car manufacturing and solar energy. It has
operations primarily in China, India, Hungary and Brazil and employs
more than 180,000 people. Its turnover in 2010 was 46 billion Yuan
RMB ($6.8 billion).
   Mr Wang was a chemist and researcher at Beijing Non-Ferrous
Metal Research Institute who was assigned to be the general
manager of a government-owned battery factory. After reading that
Japan was going to stop the production of the NiCd1 battery
because of environment concerns, Wang quit his job and founded
Shenzhen BYD Battery Company Limited with 2.5 million Yuan RMB
borrowed from his cousin. The company started with 20 employees.
   When BYD started out, making rechargeable batteries for tools
like electric drills, Wang and his engineers built their own production
line on which the cheap cost of labour replaced expensive
machinery, giving BYD a competitive advantage on price. In 2000, it
qualified as a Li-ion battery supplier for Motorola and, in 2002, for
Nokia. BYD had to compete not only with traditional Japanese
battery makers but more and more with local newcomers who tried
to copy BYD’s production system.
   With increased competition, Wang diversified into making
components such as LCD screens, keypads and modules for mobile
phone manufacturers. Those electronic manufacturing activities
became the second pillar of the BYD
   corporate portfolio. In 2008, this division bought Sino MOS, which
specialized in semiconductor technology and became a significant
part of BYD activities.
   However, the major strategic move came on 22 January 2003
when BYD purchased Xi’an Tsinchuan Auto Co. and entered the
auto industry. Immediately Wang replicated in the car industry his
method of production based on cheap labour-intensive methods
rather than expensive automation. But BYD also had to build an
R&D capability, so Wang went to top universities and hired
thousands of new mechanics and engineering graduates. By the end
of 2009, BYD had more than 12,000 engineers working in basic
R&D functions. Wang remarked that he was blessed with engineers
who worked hard for only 3,600 Yuan RMB a month. He also
engaged in reverse engineering practices, dismantling competitors’
products in order to understand and possibly replicate some
components. Another practice derived from the battery business
was the vertical integration and manufacture of most of the parts
internally. Wang bought a mould-making factory in Beijing and
another in Japan.
   The first car produced by the company, the BYD F3, was very
much like the Toyota Aygo. In order to fight a possible law suit, BYD
hired 200 legal staff.
   In 2007, Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway bought 10 per cent
of BYD shares for $230 million.
   In 2008, Wang announced the launch of a hybrid model and a fully
electric car for 2009.
   By 2009 the F3 was a success with 290,000 cars sold, and Wang
announced his intention to become the number 1 car maker in China
by 2015 and the world’s best car maker in 2025.
   In the electric car business, Wang claimed a competitive
advantage in electric car battery with BYD’s lithium-ion ferrous
phosphate (LFP) technology.
   The launch of the first purely electric vehicle was announced in
January 2010.
   However, 2010 was marked by a decline in profits due to
distribution problems.
   In 2011, BYD and Daimler signed a memorandum of
understanding and announced they would jointly launch electric cars
under a new brand in China in 2013 through Shenzhen BYD Daimler
New Technology Co. Ltd. This joint venture had a capital of 600
million Yuan RMB, combining Daimler’s proprietary technologies in
vehicle structure and safety with BYD’s auto battery.
   On the battery side of the business, in 2008, BYD signed an
agreement with the local government of Shangluo, Shannxi, to build
a solar-powered battery plant and announced that it would build
5,000 MW per year of solar photovoltaic cell manufacturing capacity
at a cost of 22.5 billion Yuan RMB by 2015. This was considerably
more than Suntech Power Holdings
   Co. Ltd, a major Chinese player in this market, whose capacity
was about 100 MW per year.
   In October 2011, BYD opened its North American headquarters in
Los Angeles.
   In 2014, it opened the first iron phosphate battery production
plant in Manaus (Brazil) and expanded to the production of lithium
phosphate in 2020.
   In 2015, it began producing a new electric bus model, in Brasilia,
in cooperation with the local bus body maker Marcopolo.
   The BYD revenues grew from from $12 billion in 2015 to $18
billion in 2019.
   Its revenues come from the following sources: China (84 per
cent), Asia Pacific (8 per cent), USA and rest of the world (8 per
cent).

Questions:

1    How do you account for the success of BYD?
2    Given what you know of the global car industry, do you think
    that BYD is on course to realize Wang’s dream of becoming the
    number 1 global player? What elements are in its favour? What
    elements may prevent this goal from being achieved?
Source: Anna Wang and Hellmut Schütte, term paper ‘BYD Build Your Dream’, 2010.
Adapted with kind permission of Hellmut Schütte.


Summary and key points
1  Since the start of the twenty-first century, emerging countries
  from Asia, Latin America, Africa and Central Europe have
  exhibited rates of growth in GDP, foreign direct investment and
  international trade higher than industrialized countries
2 ‘Emerging countries’ describes countries that exhibit:
    a    High economic growth
    b  The increasing development of a middle class
    c  A high degree of infrastructure and educational investment d
      A progressive shift from agriculture to industry and services
    e An economy in which market mechanisms play an increasing
      role
    f      The opening of their markets to international trade and
        investment
3    The World Bank groups emerging countries that fulfil those
    requirements into three categories:
    a Low income countries: GNI/cap less than $1,026
    b Lower middle-income countries: GNI/cap between $1,027
    and $3,995
  c   Upper middle-income countries: GNI/cap between $3,996
    and $12,375
4 Economic growth is due to three factors:
    a   A rapidly growing urban middle class
    b   An investment in infrastructure
  c A drive to conquer international markets
5 The major differences between emerging countries and OECD
  countries are a number of market failures due to institutional
  contexts:
    a     Governance marked by weak rule of law, poor control of
        corruption and regulatory quality
    b   Institutional voids and market imperfections
    c   Ease of doing business needs to be improved
    d    Importance of business conglomerates
    e      A significant presence of ‘bottom-of-the-pyramid’ market
        segments
6   Global firms benefit from emerging countries for:
    a   Market development
  b Sourcing and localization of production capacities
7 Strategies for emerging countries consist of:
    a    Deciding on the kind of product/service redesign and
      adaptation needed according to the selected segments
    b Deciding on the localization of strategic capabilities
    c     Deciding whether one engages in strategic partnership with
        local firms
8   Emerging market champions:
    a     Concentrate on the lower-end segments in their protected
        home markets
    b  Succeed in building volume in a market that is largely ignored
      by multinational firms
    c   In international markets they start first importing low-priced
      products through OEM and distributors’ brands, and
      progressively build their own distribution network and, later
      on, their foreign presence via acquisitions

Learning assignments
1  What are the differences between an emerging country and a
  developing country?
2 Why does a growing middle class contribute to growth?
3   What benefits do emerging markets champions get from OEM
  contracts?
4 What are the threats coming from emerging markets champions
  to Western global firms?
5    How do you explain the paradoxical position of China being the
    second largest economy in the world and still classified as an
    emerging economy?

Key words
•   BRICS
•   Emerging countries champions
•   Emerging country
•   Institutional voids
•   Middle class
•   Bottom of the pyramid
•   OEM
•   Offshoring
•    Offsourcing

Web resources
http://unctad.org/
http://info.worldbank.org/governance/wgi/index.aspx#home
http://unctad.org/en/Pages/Home.aspx


    Companion website

    Visit the companion website at bloomsbury.pub/global-
    strategic-management-5e for a multitude of weblinks and
    resources, self-test questions for revision and appendices.



Notes
1   OECD (2010).
2         https://www.goldmansachs.com/insights/archive/BRICs-and-Beyond.html. For a
   complete review of the BRICS and the next eleven.
3    Gross national income (GNI is equal to product (GDP) plus net income (positive or
   negative) received from abroad.
4 Youval and Magni (2012).
5 Kharas (2009).
6 Court and Narasimhan (2010).
7 UNCTAD (2008).
8        https://www.oecd.org/env/cc/g20-climate/Technical-note-estimates-of-infrastructure-
   investment-needs.pdf
9 Ifzal and Pernia (2003).
10 Soubbotina (2010).
11 Williamson (1990, 1993, 2004).
12 Huang (2010).
13 Khanna et al. (2005).
14 Prahalad (2005).
15 h t t p s: // w w w.l v m h .c o m / i n v e s to r s / p r o f i l e / financial-indicators/#groupe.
16 BCG Global Challengers: Digital Leapfrogs, Boston Consulting Group, May 2018.
17 5 BCG Tech Challengers: The next generation of innovation in Emerging Markets, Boston
   Consulting Group, 2020.
18        National Science Board, Science & Engineering Indicators 2018,
   https://www.nsf.gov/statistics/2018/nsb20181/
19 Based on the INSEAD case study: Reference 6328, L. F. Monteiro, G. Rozman, A-M
   Carrick, ‘Stefanini and the Digital Revolution: Transforming and Being Transformed’,
   2017.
20 Stefanini company brochure 2020.


References and further reading
Aguiar, M., Bradtke, T., Carlisle, E. et al. (2014) Redefining Global Competitive Dynamics:
   2014 BCG Global Challengers, BCG Perspectives.
Barton, D., Chen, Y. and Jin, A. (2013) ‘Mapping China’s middle class’, McKinsey Quarterly,
   June.
Besouri, C. P. (2006) ‘A grassroots approach to emerging market consumers’, McKinsey
   Quarterly, 4: 61–71.
Boston Consulting Group (2009) The 2009 Multilatinas.
   https://www.bcg.com/publications/2009/2009-bcg-multilatinas (accessed 24 May 2017).
Boston Consulting Group (2010, May) The African Challengers.
   https://www.bcg.com/publications/2010/african-challengers (accessed 8 February 2022).
Boston Consulting Group (2010, September) Winning in Emerging-market Cities.
   https://reclaimistanbul.files.wordpress.com/2011/04/bcg-raporu.pdf (accessed 8 February
   2022).
Boston Consulting Group (2014) The 2014 BCG New Global Challengers.
   https://www.bcg.com/publications/2014/growth-meet-global-challengers (accessed 8
   February 2022).
Casanova, L. and Miroux, A. (2020), Emerging Market Multinationals Report 2020: 10 Years
   that Changed Emerging Markets, Cornell University. https://doi.org/10.7298/cvhn-dc87
   (accessed 11 February 2022).
Court, D. and Narasimhan, L. (2010) ‘Capturing the world emerging middle class’, McKinsey
   Quarterly, July, 1–6.
Dawar, N. and Chattopadhyay, A. (2002) ‘Rethinking marketing programs for emerging
   markets’, Long Range Planning, 35: 457–74.
Deloitte (2014) Deloitte’s 2014 Global Outsourcing and Insourcing Survey, 2014 and
   Beyond.
Deloitte Research (2006) Unlocking the Value of Globalisation: A Deloitte Research Global
   Manufacturing Study.
Euromonitor International (2010) ‘Consumer Lifestyles in China’, December.
Farrell, D., Gersh, U. and Stephenson, E. (2006) ‘The value of China’s emerging middle
   class’, McKinsey Quarterly, Special Edition, 60–9.
Guillén, M. F. and García-Canal, E. (2009) ‘The American model of the multinational firm and
   the “new” multinationals from emerging economies’, Academy of Management
   Perspectives, 23 (2): 23–35.
Gupta, A. K. and Wang, H. (2009) Getting China and India Right (San Francisco, CA:
   Jossey-Bass).
Gwartney, J., Lawson, R. and Hall, J. (2016) Economic Freedom of the World: 2016 Annual
   Report, Fraser Institute. https://www.fraserinstitute.org/sites/default/files/economic-
   freedom-of-the-world-2016.pdf (accessed 24 May 2017).
Huang, Y. (2010) ‘Debating China’s economic growth: The Beijing consensus or the
   Washington consensus’, Academy of Management Perspectives, 24 (2): 31–7.
Ifzal, A. and Pernia, E. M. (2003) ‘Infrastructure and poverty reduction: what is the
   connection?’, ERDB Policy Brief Series, No. 13, Asian Development Bank.
Kearney, A. T. (2008) The Rise of Emerging Markets in Mergers and Acquisitions.
   https://silo.tips/download/the-rise-of-emerging-markets-in-mergers-and-acquisitions-
   developing-countries-ar (accessed 29 January 2022).
Khanna, T. and Palepu, K. (1997) ‘Why focused strategies may be wrong for emerging
  markets’, Harvard Business Review, 75 (4): 41–51.
Khanna, T., Palepu, K. and Sinha, J. (2005) ‘Strategies that fit emerging markets’, Harvard
  Business Review, 84 (10): 63–76.
Kharas, H. (2009) ‘The emerging middle class in developing countries’, OECD Development
  Centre, Working Paper no. 285, OECD.
Kharas, H. (2011) ‘The emerging middle class in developing countries’, Global Economy and
  Development at Brookings (Washington, DC: Brookings).
Kharas, H. (2017) ‘The unprecedented expansion of the global middle class: an update’,
  Global Economy and Development at Brookings (Washington, DC: Brookings).
Kim, D., Kandemir, D. and Cavusgil, S. T. (2004) ‘The role of family conglomerates in
  emerging markets: what Western companies should know’, Thunderbird International
  Business Review, 46 (1): 13–38.
Lasserre, P. (1993) ‘The coming of age of Indonesian-Chinese conglomerates’, INSEAD
  Euro Asia Centre, Working paper no. 13.
Lazzarini, S. G., Mesquita, L. F., Monteiro, F. and Musacchio, A. (2021) ‘Leviathan as an
  inventor: leader or laggard? Patenting intensity, originality, and impact in state-owned
  multinational firms’, Journal of International Business Studies, 52: 560–94.
Narayanswamy, S. and Zainulbhai, A. (2007) ‘India’s consumption evolution’, Business
  Standard (India), May.
OECD (2010) Perspectives on Global Development 2010, Shifting Wealth, OECD.
Prahalad, C. K. (2005) The Fortune at the Bottom of the Pyramid (Upper Saddle River, NJ:
  Wharton School Publishing).
Rastogi, V., Tamboto, E., Tong, D. and Sinburimsit, T. (2013) ‘Asia’s next big opportunity:
  Indonesia’s rising middle-class and affluent consumers’, BCG Perspectives, March.,
  https://www.bcg.com/publications/2013/center-consumer-customer-insight-consumer-
  products-indonesias-rising-middle-class-affluent-consumers (accessed 4 July 2017).
Satish, S., Ormiston, C., Bloch, N. et al. (2008) ‘How to win in emerging markets’, Sloan
  Management Review, Spring: 19–23.
Soubbotina, T. P. (2010) Beyond Economic Growth: Meeting the Challenges of Global
  Development, International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
Tahilyani, N., Tamhane, T. and Tan, J. (2011) ‘Asia’s $1 trillion infrastructure opportunity’,
  McKinsey Quarterly, March.
UNCTAD (2008) ‘Transnational corporations and the infrastructure challenge’, World
  Investment Report 2008, UNCTAD.
UNCTAD, Statistical Database (n.d.).
  http://unctadstat.unctad.org/wds/ReportFolders/reportFolders.aspx-?
  sCS_ChosenLang=en (accessed 6 June 2017).
UNCTAD, World Investment Reports (2016).
  http://unctad.org/en/pages/DIAE/World%20Investment%20Report/WIR-Series.aspx
  (accessed 24 May 2021).
Vestring, T., Rouse, T., Reinert, U. and Varma, S. (2005) Making the Move to Low-cost
  Countries (Boston, MA: Bain and Company).
Williamson, J. (ed.) (1990) ‘Latin American adjustment: how much has happened?’, Institute
  for International Economics, Conference volume.
Williamson, J. (1993) ‘Democracy and the “Washington Consensus”’, World Development,
  21 (8): 1329–36.
Williamson, J. (2004) ‘A short history of the Washington Consensus’, Paper commissioned
  by Fundación CIDOB for the conference ‘From the Washington Consensus towards a
  new global governance’, Barcelona, 24–5 September 2004.
Wilson, D. and Purushothaman, R. (2003) ‘Dreaming with BRICs: the path to 2050’,
  Goldman Sachs, Global Economic paper no. 99, 1 October.
World Bank (n.d.), Global Indicators Database.
  http://databank.worldbank.org/data/reports.aspx?-source=world-development-indicators
  (accessed 6 June 2017).
World Bank (2016) Doing Business 2016.
  http://www.doingbusiness.org/~/media/WBG/DoingBusiness/
Documents/Annual-Reports/English/DB16-Full-Report.pdf (accessed 24 May 2017).
World Bank (2020) Doing Business 2020.
  https://documents1.worldbank.org/curated/en/688761571934946384/pdf/Doing-Business-
  2020-Comparing-Business-Regulation-in-190-Economies.pdf (accessed 8 February
  2022).
Youval, A. and Magni, M. (2012) ‘Meet the Chinese consumer of 2020’, McKinsey Quarterly,
  March.
Zoubir, Y. and Lhabitant, F. S. (2003) Doing Business in Emerging Europe (Basingstoke:
  Palgrave Macmillan).
Chapter 3

Globalization, societies and cultures




 By the end of the chapter you should be able to:

 •   Understand the meaning of culture and the various layers of
   culture
 •      Understand the variety of different forms of economic
   organization and business system
 •        Identify the key characteristics of international cultural
     differences
 •     Understand the different management issues associated with
     cultural differences
 •       Understand the managerial issues associated with cross-
     cultural teams
 •        Understand how cultural differences affect international
     negotiations
 •    Identify the key characteristics of an economic culture
 •     Be aware of differences in the ways of conducting business
     across cultures
Introduction
When Samuel Huntington wrote The Clash of Civilizations in 1993 he
made the prediction that ‘the great divisions among humankind and the
dominating source of conflict will be cultural’.1 While his argument was
essentially addressing geopolitical conflicts, it stressed the fact that
economic globalization reaches its limits when confronted with the
diversity of values, beliefs, behaviours and codes of conduct. In
different parts of the world societies still differ in terms of the ways
social, political and economic activities are structured, coordinated and
managed, and the behaviours of people and organizations are
influenced by what is commonly called ‘culture’. Global corporations
are by nature organizations that interact with customers, employees,
partners, suppliers and government bodies from different national
cultures, giving rise to the anecdotal gaffes well documented by David
Ricks.2 Beneath the surface of these ‘travellers’ tales’ lies one of the
main challenges that global firms have to confront. Do the various
players in the global ecosystem give the same meaning to the same
concepts, behaviours and attitudes? Do employees around the world
get the same message when policies are enacted, memos exchanged
or rewards distributed? Do customers of the same age, urbanization
and wealth value similar product or service attributes? Do employees
in multinational teams share similar assumptions and causal
relationships about decision parameters? When a contract, a business
venture or a loan is being negotiated, do the parties understand each
other’s ‘silent language’? These are the questions that all global
companies have to address in their cross-cultural management
competencies.
   This chapter presents the results of academic and empirical
research on societal and cultural diversity. It begins with a
presentation of the variety of business cultures and economic
organizations. Various cross-cultural studies will be presented,
followed by a discussion of the impact of cultural differences on
management, team members, negotiations, categories of player and
business practices.
The different facets of culture
There is no universal definition of culture. Schneider and Barsoux
(1997) identified 164 different definitions made by anthropologists.
More relevant broad definitions of culture include ‘a shared pattern of
behaviour’ (Mead 1953), a ‘system of shared meaning or
understanding’ (Levi-Strauss 1971; Geertz 1973), or ‘a set of basic
assumptions, shared solutions to universal problems … handed down
from one generation to another’ (Schein 1985). All these definitions
have in common the concept that culture is shared, and contain an
implicit decoding of an underlying pattern of cause and effect
relationships,     whether     cognitive    (meaning,      assumptions),
attitudinal/emotional (behaviour) or decisional (solutions). Schein adds
the dimension of generational transmission, which implies a certain
degree of consistency of culture over time.
   Instead of a definition, some scholars have attempted to describe
the content of culture. According to André Laurent3 there are three
major layers of culture. In ascending order, they are:

1   Basic assumptions and meaning: the elements of belief that are
  the least visible and probably the most entrenched, since they deal
  with ingrained models of understanding, meaning and causal
  relationships that have been largely shaped by historical factors
  and transmitted through the educational process to the next
  generation. Religious faith and assumptions about human nature
  belong to this category (e.g. ‘all men are equal’, ‘time is limited’).
2 Values, beliefs and preferences: the explicit expression of what
  people consider as good or appropriate in one’s personal or social
  life. Values can be challenged and possibly changed to some
  extent by new information and confrontation with new situations. A
  manager whose assumption about human nature is that people are
  fundamentally greedy, for example, will probably believe that only
  materialistic rewards will motivate employees. They may change
  this belief if exposed to situations in which people sacrifice their
  own financial reward for the benefit of others.
3    Behaviour: the most visible part of the iceberg. It is manifested in
    action and can be modified through education as well as through
    some forms of ‘conditioning’. Behavioural change does not
    necessarily indicate a genuine modification of the beliefs or
    assumptions underneath it. An autocratic leader may be told to
    change their style of leading a meeting although they still believe
    that employees ‘have to be told’ (belief) based on the assumption
    that human beings are fundamentally divided into ‘born leaders’ and
    ‘passive followers’. In such a case, behavioural change is
    superficial.

  In the management field which, by its very nature, is concerned with
the economic achievement of social groups (companies), culture
manifests in four key dimensions:

•   National or ethnic culture: derived from the national, religious or
  ethnic origin of citizens or social groups.
• Corporate culture: the accumulated assumptions, values, beliefs
  and behavioural norms resulting from the history of the company
  (good and bad experiences), its existing and past leadership (the
  legacy of charismatic CEOs), its ownership structure (family-
  owned, publicly listed, private, government-owned) and its size.
•     Industry culture: any accepted values and codes of conduct
    derived from the professional norms of a particular industry such as
    heavy manufacturing, services, oil and gas and so on.
•     Professional culture: derived from the training and professional
    norms and constraints of different corporate functions such as
    accountants, researchers, production personnel, sales and
    marketing people and so on. As Lawrence and Lorsh (1969) have
    described, professional orientation intro-duces a large amount of
    differentiation within organizations.

All companies are confronted by corporate, industrial and professional
cultural diversity in their home country even if they do not operate in
foreign countries. What is specific to multinational and global firms is
that this diversity is compounded by national and ethnic differences
encountered from their worldwide implantation. In this chapter we will
limit our presentation to national and ethnic cultural differences.

National cultural differences
Nations are political constructs resulting from historical evolution.
Nation states may not be the best unit of analysis of cultural
differences since within nations one may find different sub-cultures
according to the variety of ethnic, linguistic and religious groups (for
instance, Balinese in Indonesia and Roma in Romania). Religion may
be another valid way of categorization, although it is not perfect: an
Indonesian Muslim will think and act differently from a Saudi Arabian
Muslim.
   From a practical perspective, most cultural research in management
has used nations as their unit of grouping for cultural categories.
Analysis of national cultural differences in a business management
context suggests four main streams of differences:

1  Ethnological research: ‘silent language’ differences (Hall and Reed
  Hall 1990).
2       Managerial values and assumptions: work-related value
  differences (Hofstede 1980); value orientation differences
  (Trompenaars 1993; Hampden-Turner and Trompenaars 2000);
  management assumption differences (Laurent 1986; Meyer 2014a,
  2014b, 2015a, 2015b).
3     Country clusters: the grouping of nations according to similarities
    in cultural traits (Ronen and Shenkar 1985; Huntington 1997).
4      Economic cultures: how business systems are organized and
    interactions governed (Albert 1991; Berger and Dore 1996; Whitley
    1999; Redding 2001).

Ethnological research: ‘silent language’ differences
According to Hall, cultures differ in the way they communicate through
non-verbal signs or ‘silent language’.4 He identifies six silent
languages: time, space , material goods , friendships , agreements
and context.

•      Cultures differ according to their perception of time. Time can be
    seen as sequential and scarce, as in the case of the Germanic
    culture, leading to the quest for preciseness, punctuality and dead-
    line-keeping. Some cultures see time as fluid, circular and
    abundant , as in Arab countries, where people will be less punctual
    and not really disturbed by delays and postponements.
•    Differences in the perception of space relate to the concept of
  social distance that measures not only the physical proximity in
  social interactions but also the emotional intimacy. In high-social
  distance cultures, people will tend to avoid physical and emotional
  proximity – a typically British trait. However, in low-social distance
  cultures – such as the Latin countries – people have no objection to
  physical contact and the sharing of emotions.
•     The language of material goods is linked to the importance
  attached to financial wealth as a sign of status – a materialistic trait
  of Americans – as opposed to other status signifiers such as family,
  education or seniority.
•      Friendship is built and maintained quite differently. In some
  societies, one can make friends rapidly but the relationship may be
  superficial and may not last long. The silent language of this sort of
  friendship may shock people coming from societies where
  friendships are not so quickly built but last longer.
•       The silent language of agreement quite often differentiates
  Western cultures from Eastern. In Western societies, most
  agreements or disagreements are explicitly stated and documented
  in writing. In Eastern cultures, verbal and sometimes ambiguous
  agreements are accepted. In Indonesia, for instance, it is often
  difficult for a business partner to say a straight ‘no’, but a ‘maybe’
  might in fact have the same negative connotation.
•     The silent language of context attaches importance to the person
    rather than the content in a communication. In high-context societies
    – mostly Asian, South American or Latin – the important part of an
    interaction is the person (with whom) and the emphasis given to the
    setting, the ambiance and ceremonials. In low-context societies –
    Anglo-Saxon, Nordic or Germanic – the what dominates the
    communication, hence the importance attached to written
    documents and technical specifications.

Differences in managerial values and assumptions

Several scholars have posited theories of managerial cultural
difference at the level of nationalities, notably:

•   Hofstede’s work-related values
•   Trompenaars’ value orientation
•   Laurent’s management assumption
•   Meyer’s culture map

Hofstede’s work-related values
Hofstede’s research is probably one of the most frequently quoted in
the international management literature because of the vast amount of
data he collected. Hofstede’s original (1980) survey was made with
116,000 employees at IBM worldwide. He asked questions related to
their preferences in management styles and work values, and related
the answers to national origin; he found that national cultures differed
according to four main dimensions: power distance, individualism ,
uncertainty avoidance and masculinity.5

•     Power distance is the extent to which people in certain societies
    accept inequality in power distribution or, on the contrary, have a
    more egalitarian view of power distribution. High-power distance
    societies will accept hierarchical control and respect authority – as,
    for instance, in Malaysia – while egalitarian societies will have a
    more democratic view of social control, with no particular reverence
    for high-ranking functions – as, for instance, in Denmark.
•     Individualism characterizes a culture in which individuals look after
    their own or immediate rela-tives’ interests. This is the case in most
    Western cultures and translates into individual assertiveness and
    initiative in business contexts. Collectivist cultures, on the other
    hand, will put group interests above individuals: consensus and
    harmony will be preferred to assertiveness. East Asian cultures
    commonly put society ahead of the individual.
•     Uncertainty avoidance is typical of societies in which ambiguity and
    unpredictability are not accepted, and there is a continual search to
    codify, plan and regulate the environment (Japan, Spain). At the
    opposite end of the scale are social groups in which tolerance and
    risk taking are accepted and rewarded (USA, Sweden).
•    Masculinity refers to the high value given to assertive, competitive
    behaviour. Femininity, on the other hand, refers to societies where
    quality of life, non-aggressive behaviour, interpersonal relations and
    concern for the weak are dominant values.

The forty countries in Hofstede’s original study were clustered around
the four dimensions. It appears that Asian, Latin American and Arab
countries are high on power distance and low on individualism, while
Anglo-Saxon and Nordic countries show the reverse. South European
countries such as Italy, Spain or France are high on power distance
and on individualism. The dimensions related to masculinity and
uncertainty avoidance are less based on regions. For instance, in
Asia, Japan scores very high on masculinity and uncertainty avoidance
while India, Indonesia or Singapore are relatively low on those two
dimensions.
  In 2010 Hofstede added two more dimensions and increased his
sample of countries to seventy.

•    Long-term orientation refers to societies that encourage thrift and
    efforts in modern education as a way to prepare for the future, as
    opposed to societies showing a short-term orientation: preferring to
  maintain traditions and norms and viewing social change with
  suspicion.
•       Indulgence stands for societies that allow relatively free
  gratification of basic and natural human drives related to enjoying
  life, while restrained societies suppress gratification of needs and
  regulate it by means of strict social norms. Table 3.1 presents the
  positioning along those six dimensions of a selection of sixteen
  nationalities.
Table 3.1 Hofstede values orientation (selected countries)


 Values              High                                    Low
 Power               Brazil, China, Egypt,                   Australia, Denmark,
 distance (*)        France, India, Indonesia,               Germany, Sweden, UK,
                     Japan, Mexico, Russia,                  USA
                     Thailand

 Individualism Australia, Denmark,                           Brazil, China, Egypt,
 (*)           France, Germany,                              France, India, Indonesia,
               Sweden, UK, USA                               Japan, Mexico, Russia,
                                                             Thailand
 Uncertainty         Australia, Brazil, Egypt,               China, Denmark, India,
 avoidance           France, Germany,                        Indonesia, Japan,
 (*)                 Mexico, Russia, UK                      Sweden, Thailand, USA
 Masculinity         Australia, Brazil, Egypt,               Brazil, Denmark, Egypt,
 (*)                 France, Germany, Japan,                 Indonesia, Sweden,
                     Mexico, UK, USA                         Russia, Thailand

 Long-term           China, Germany,                         Australia, Brazil, Canada,
 orientation         Denmark, France,                        Denmark, Egypt, India,
 (**)                Indonesia, Japan, Russia,               Mexico, Sweden, UK,
                     Thailand                                USA
 Indulgence          Australia, Brazil, Mexico,              China, Egypt, Germany,
 (***)               France, Thailand, Russia,               Indonesia, India, Japan
                    UK, USA

Sources: Table constructed with data from: * Hofstede (1980); ** Hofstede and Minkov (2010);
*** https://www.hofstede-insights.com/country-comparison

Trompenaars’ value orientation
The cultural differentiation proposed by Trompenaars (1993), also
based on survey data, identifies six value orientations that differentiate
cultures and impact the way countries conceive organizations (see
Table 3.2). Trompenaars found significant differences in national
groups; most Asian cultures, for instance, differ from Western cultures
in all dimensions.6
Table 3.2 Trompenaars’ six value orientations


 Value orientation           Description                      Examples
 Universalism vs              Rule-based behaviour; Nordic countries
 Particularism                general application

                              Circumstance,                   Southeast Asia, China,
                              relation-based                  African countries
                              behaviour; specific
                              application
 Individualism vs             Individual rights are           Western countries
 Communitarism                supreme; individual
                              performances are
                              valued

                              Group’s rights are              Asian countries
                              supreme; harmony
                              and cohesion are
                              valued
 Specificity vs               Objective, analytical,          Germany, France
 Diffusion                    reductionist reasoning
                           Holistic, synthetic            Middle East, Asia
                           reasoning
    Achieved status vs     Status and respect             United States
    Ascribed status        achieved by ‘doing’
                           Status and respect             Malaysia, China
                           achieved by ‘being’
    Inner direction vs     Knowledge of ‘right’           Protestant countries
    Outer direction        and ‘wrong’ lies inside
                           the individual (‘guilt
                           culture’)
                           Knowledge of ‘right’           Confucian societies
                           and ‘wrong’ comes
                           from society (‘shame’
                           culture)
    Sequential time vs     Time is a straight line        Western
    Synchronous time       that is consumed in
                           one direction

                           Time is a circle               Arabic, African, Asian
                                                          countries

Sources: Authors’ own, based on texts by Trompenaars (1993) and Hampden-Turner and
Trompenaars (2000).

Laurent’s management assumption
André Laurent (1986) asked precise questions related to
organizational and managerial issues of international managers of
various nationalities attending executive seminars over twenty-five
years. He found a systematic pattern of national differences7 in their
replies:

•      ‘Most managers seem to be more motivated by obtaining power
     than by achieving objectives’ (Latin European countries – Italian,
    French, Spaniards – agree with this statement, while Danes,
    Swedes and Norwegians disagree).
•  ‘It is important for managers to have at hand precise answers to
  most of the questions that a subordinate may raise about their
  work’ (Asian and Latin individuals strongly support this statement,
  while Anglo-Saxon and Nordic cultures do not).
•      ‘In order to have efficient working relationships, it is often
  necessary to bypass the hierarchical lines’ (Nordic and Anglo-
  Saxon cultures agree, while Chinese, Italian, Spanish or Indonesian
  nationals strongly disagree).
•   ‘An organization structure in which subordinates have two direct
  bosses should be avoided at all costs’ (Chinese, Italians, French
  and Indonesians reject this organizational model, while Americans
  and Swedes accept the idea of working for two bosses).
•      ‘The main reason for having a hierarchical structure is that
    everybody knows who has authority over whom’ (Chinese, French,
    Japanese and Indonesian nationals agree, while Americans,
    Swedes and British disagree).

Laurent’s results consistently show that basic managerial and
organizational assumptions concerning power, structure, clarity of
roles and hierarchy are still deeply embedded in national cultures.
These differences in assumptions pose a challenge to global firms that
need to organize, lead and motivate people of diverse cultural
heritage. Laurent even found that ‘cultural differences in managerial
assumptions were not reduced as a result of working for the same
multinational companies’, thus rejecting the idea that national cultures
converge thanks to corporate cultures.

Meyer’s culture map
Based on her extensive research and consulting practice, Erin Meyer
(2014a) proposed eight scales that correspond to the eight key
cultural issues that managers working in an international context
should understand and take into consideration.8 They are:
•     Communication
•     Evaluation of people
•     Persuasion
•     Leadership
•     Decision making
•     Trust
•     Disagreements
•     Scheduling.

For each of these issues she mapped countries’ ‘cultural traits’ on a
polarized continuum. Table 3.3 summarizes these eight dimensions.
Table 3.3 The eight dimensions of Meyer’s culture map


    Low context          Communicating                  High context Messages
    Messages are         across cultures                are often implied and not
    expressed clearly                                   expressed directly
    and directly without                                (reading between the
    any implied                                         lines). (Examples: China,
    subtextual                                          Indonesia, Russia,
    meaning.                                            France)
    (Examples: USA,
    Germany, UK,
    Denmark)

    Direct negative         Evaluating                  Indirect negative feedback
    feedback Negative       performances                Negative feedback is
    feedback is frank       and providing               provided diplomatically.
    and honest.             negative                    Positive messages soften
    (Examples:              feedback                    the negative. (Examples:
    Russia, Germany,                                    Japan, Thailand,
    France)                                             Indonesia, and to an
                                                        extent USA, UK)

    Applications-first      Persuasion                  Principles-first Arguments
Arguments are                          are presented
presented with                         conceptually, theoretically.
facts, figures and                     (Examples: Italy, France,
logic. (Examples:                      Germany, Russia)
USA, Canada,
Australia, UK)

Egalitarian Low      Leadership        Hierarchical High distance
distance between                       between subordinate and
subordinate and                        boss. Communications
boss. Hierarchy                        follow hierarchy.
can be bypassed.                       (Examples: India, Korea,
(Examples:                             Nigeria)
Sweden, Israel,
Australia)

Top-down             Decision making   Consensual Decision are
Decisions are                          made in groups.
made by the boss.                      (Examples: Japan,
(Examples: India,                      Sweden, Netherlands)
China, Russia)

Task-based Trust    Trust              Relationship-based Trust
is based on the                        is based on social
quality of work and                    relationships and network.
performance.                           (Examples: China, Saudi
(Examples: USA,                        Arabia, India, Brazil)
Denmark,
Netherlands)

Confrontational    Disagreements       Confrontation avoidance
Open confrontation                     Disagreement is seen as
can be seen as                         negative. (Examples:
positive.                              China, Indonesia,
(Examples: Israel,                     Thailand)
France, Germany)
 Time is linear      Scheduling                         Time is flexible Tasks are
 Tasks are                                              scheduled to run
 scheduled                                              simultaneously.
 according to a time                                    (Examples: India,
 sequence, one                                          Mexico, Turkey)
 step at a time.
 (Examples:
 Germany, Sweden,
 Japan)

Source: Authors’ own, based on text of Meyer (2014a).


Country clusters

The clustering approach consists of grouping countries according to
their degree of geographical, linguistic, religious, historical and social
proximity. Several approaches have been proposed:

    a   Ronen and Shenkar (1985) divided the world into nine clusters:
      Anglo, Germanic, Nordic, Near Eastern, Arab, Far Eastern,
      Latin American and Independent (Brazil, Japan, India, Israel).
    b        Huntington (1997) grouped countries by what he calls
      ‘civilizations’ based on language, religion, values, beliefs and
      institutional and social structures. He identified eight modern
      ‘civilizations’: Sinic (China and Chinese communities as well as
      Vietnam and Korea), Japanese, Hindu, Islamic, Orthodox, Latin
      American, African and Western (Western Europe, North
      America and Australia). Huntington’s grouping has more to do
      with geopolitics than with management. He asserted that more
      and more conflicts in the world will be due to clashes of
      ‘civilizations’.
    c     The GLOBE (Global Leadership and Organizational Behavior
        Effectiveness) study is a collabora-tive ongoing research project
        based on multi-phase, multi-method, multi-sample research data
        collection. It assesses two measures:
i      Societal Culture, defined as the ‘shared motives, values,
    beliefs, identities, and interpretations or meanings of
    significant events that result from common experiences of
    members of collec-tives that are transmitted across
    generations’. The dimensions of societal cultures are:
     •    Performance orientation: how far societies encourage
        performance improvement and excellence.
    •    Assertiveness: the extent to which individuals in the
      society tend towards being assertive, confrontational and
      aggressive in their relationships with others.
    •    Future orientation: how much individuals engage (or
      should engage) in future-oriented behaviours such as
      planning, investing in the future and delaying gratification.
    •   Humane orientation: how far a society encourages and
      rewards (or should encourage and reward) individuals for
      being fair, altruistic, generous, caring and kind to others.
    •   Collectivism: how far a society promotes the collective
      distribution of resources and collective action and how far
      individuals express pride, loyalty and cohesiveness in their
      organizations or families.
    •    Gender egalitarianism: how much societies minimize
      gender inequality.
    •    Power distance: to what extent societies accept and
      endorse authority, power differences and status privileges.
    •     Uncertainty avoidance: how much societies rely on
       norms, rules and procedures to alleviate the
       consequences of unpredictable future events.
ii Cultural Leadership, defined as ‘the ability of an individual to
   influence, motivate, and enable others to contribute toward
   the effectiveness and success of the organizations of which
   they are members’. GLOBE identifies six global leadership
   dimensions:
            •     Charismatic/value-based leadership: reflects the ability to
                inspire, motivate and expect high performance from others
                based on firmly-held core values.
            •       Team-oriented leadership: emphasizes effective team
                building and implementation of a common purpose or goal
                among team members.
            •      Participative leadership: reflects the degree to which
                managers involve others in making and implementing
                decisions.
            •        Humane-oriented leadership: reflects supportive and
                considerate leadership and includes compassion and
                generosity.
            •        Autonomous leadership: refers to independent and
                individualistic leadership attributes.
            • Self-protective leadership: focuses on ensuring the safety
            and security of the individual and group through status
            enhancement and face-saving.
The result is a clustering of societies, as presented in Table 3.4, that
indicates the dominant features appearing in both dimensions.
Table 3.4 Country clusters for regions covered in the GLOBE project and the salient cultural and
leadership characteristics they present
Sources: Authors’ own construction based on various GLOBE project literature and data.


The Lewis model

According to Richard Lewis (1996), cultures can be classified into
three groups: linear active, multi-active and reactive.
•    In linear active cultures people are task-oriented, highly organized
    planners. They prefer direct discussion and use facts and figures.
    They are prone to accepting compromise to achieve results. In this
    category we find German, Swiss, North American and Scandinavian
    cultures.
•    Multi-active cultures group people who are loquacious, emotional
  and relationship-oriented. They tend to do several things and talk at
  the same time. In this category we find Latin American, Southern
  European, Western and Northern African and Middle Eastern
  cultures.
•    In reactive cultures people are introverted, show respect to an
  interlocutor and listen without inter-rupting. In this category one will
  find most of the Asian cultures.

Economic cultures and business systems
In the early nineteenth century, Max Weber, a German sociologist,
explained the differences in competitive and business behaviour
between Latin European countries and Nordic/‘Anglo-Saxon’ countries
as being caused by the influence of religions. In Northern Europe,
Protestantism encouraged individual achievement leading to free
enterprise and favouring the emergence of modern ‘capitalism’, while
Catholicism in Spain, and to a certain extent in France, induced state
control.9 Several scholars have identified various economic cultures or
forms of capitalism10 (Weber, Berger, Dore, Trompenaars, Albert)
that explain international variation in institutional governance and
competitive behaviours. Based on these earlier works, Whitley,
Redding and Witt developed a methodology explaining the differences
using what they call a business system analysis.11
   A business system is the way economic activities are structured,
coordinated and managed. It is the result of the interaction between
three sub-systems: governance, culture and institutional fabric (Figure
3.1).
Figure 3.1 The architecture of business systems
Source: Authors’ own, based on text in Witt and Redding (2014).

•          Governance reflects the dominant mode of control,
  interdependencies and exercise of authority in business firms. This
  is made up of three components:
   •     The ownership system: How the ownership of enterprises is
      distributed between the public and private sectors (corporate,
      family, associative).
   •     The networking system: How firms collaborate and do deals
      among themselves (contractual, ethnic, religious relationships).
   • The management system: Do employees participate in decision
      making in business enterprises? Do the employees have access
      to top managers or are those functions concentrated within a
      social elite?
•    The social culture is constituted by the norms, values and social
  codes which form the basis of social interactions and shared
  beliefs. This is made up of three components:
   •     Rationality, which describes the way societies set objectives
      and the importance they attach to formal systems and processes
      in setting objectives.
   •     Authority, which describes how societies set rules for vertical
       order (and determines the legitimate source of power).
   •   Identity, which describes the rules of horizontal order (what
    makes the citizens stick together).
•   The institutional fabric represents the organization, development
  and allocation of resources, and comprises four components:
  • Financial capital, its formation and allocation.
  • Human capital, how human skills are developed.
   •   Social capital, the way trust is created among members of
     economic agents.
   •    Role of the state in the regulation and control of business
     activities.

Table 3.5 gives a list of questions to address when evaluating the
business system of a society while Table 3.6 summarizes some
differences in business systems in America, Europe and Asia.
Table 3.5 Assessing a business system


 Governance
 Ownership             •  How is the ownership of companies distributed
 system                  among the public sector, the corporate private
                         sector, the family controlled sector, the
                         associative sector (cooperatives, associations)?
                       • What is the relative weight of big business vs
                         small business?
                       • How is power practically distributed in business
                         between shareholders, managers, trade unions,
                         authorities, pressure groups?
                       • What is the weight of diversified
                         conglomerates?
 Networking            •    What is the relative weight of vertical
 system                    integration, conglomeration vs contractual
                           relationships in the coordination of firms?
                 •  What is the relative importance of alliances,
                   partnerships, joint venture business associations
                   in the business landscape?
                 • What is the importance of ethnic, religious,
                   regional or alumni networks?
Management       •  Is the decision making primarily autocratic,
system             participative or bureaucratic?
                 • On which criteria does career advancement
                   depend: performance, loyalty, nepotism,
                   membership of a particular group?
Social culture
Rationality      •  How far does society agree that the main
                   mission of business is to create value for
                   shareholders, stakeholders and society?
                 • Are goals set for the long or short term, and
                   are they growth or profit oriented?
                 • Does society consider that the appropriate
                   process for reaching business objectives should
                   be democratic or autocratic, through negotiation
                   or dialogue?

Authority        •  Is hierarchy or egalitarian democracy the main
                   basis for authority?
                 • What are the sources of power in the society:
                   religion, castes, wealth, ethnic belonging,
                   university degree and so on?
Identity         •  Is individualism or group-oriented collectivism
                   prevalent in the society?
                 • If group orientation, what is the relevant
                   grouping (family, clan, company, religion, region,
                   ethnicity)?
Institutional
fabric
 Financial capital •       How is capital allocated: planned economy,
                          banks, financial markets or informally?
                        • Are financial markets open and transparent?
                        • Is foreign capital welcomed?
 Human capital          •    What is the quality of primary, secondary and
                            tertiary education?
                        •    Is education primarily practical or theoretical?
                        •    Are on-the-job training and apprenticeships
                            encouraged?
                        •    What is the role (if any) of trade unions?
                        •    Are trade unions organized at the level of
                            companies, industries or nationally?
                        •    How strong are the craft-based unions?
                        •    Does the employment system encourage long-
                            term tenure? Flexibility? Turnover?
                        •    Is there a healthcare social security system?
                            Unemployment compensation?

 Social capital         •  Is the society based on interpersonal trust,
                          institutionalized trust (in the law) or hierarchical
                          trust (in leadership)?
                        • In the case of interpersonal trust, what is the
                          reference group (family, school, religious, clans
                          and so on)?

 Role of the            •  Is the government interventionist in business or
 state                    labour conflicts?
                        • Is the market highly regulated?




Table 3.6 Differences in business systems
Sources: Authors’ own construction based on Albert (1991); Berger and Dore (1996); Whitley
(1999); Trompenaars (2000); Hampton-Turner and Trompenaars (2000).


The impact of cultures on global management
The effects of cultural difference on the management of global
companies are pervasive: there is no aspect of corporate life that is
not impacted by culture. Six aspects of corporate life are particularly
influenced by cultural differences:

•   Marketing and customer communications (see Chapter 10)
•   Human resources (see Chapter 14)
•   Partnerships, mergers and acquisitions (see Chapter 9)
•   Multi-cultural teams
•   Negotiations
•   Business practices.

Marketing, partnership/acquisition and human resources are covered
in later chapters. This chapter focuses on teamwork, negotiations and
business contexts.

Multi-cultural teams
In most activities, global firms rely on teamwork – committees, task
forces, cross-functional teams and so on. Many departments at
corporate, regional or subsidiary levels are staffed by managers of
different nationalities and cultures. Multicultural teams in multinational
firms are used in the form of task forces, business planning activities,
research and development, joint ventures activities as well as top
management teams in global and regional headquarters (Schneider
and Barsoux 1997). The productivity of multinational teams has been
widely discussed in academic circles (Stahl et al. 2010, 2020). The
summary of the hypothesis and findings are summarized in Table 3.7.
Table 3.7 Monocultural vs multicultural teams




Source: Authors’ own based on Stahl et al. (2010, 2021).

   Given the variety of cultural heritage, communication and decision-
making processes can be blunted by cultural noise: multi-cultural
teams can perform either significantly worse or better than mono-
cultural firms. The performance of multicultural groups is a function of
three factors:12

1     Multiplicity of perspectives, experiences and viewpoints increases
    the richness of information.
2        Possible loss of cohesion owing to miscommunication,
    misunderstanding and stereotyping.
3    The ability of team leaders to combine the variety of perspectives
    and achieve group synergy.

The relative impact of these three factors can lead to polarized
performance. In an interesting study made with German- and
American-staffed work teams, two researchers found that the
Germans’ rational, analytical approaches to problem-solving combined
with the action-oriented, free-wheeling, innovative approaches of
American members contributed to high performance. However,
performances were poor when the team leader was not able to
introduce team-building procedures that facilitated information-sharing
and group awareness of cultural assumptions.13

Cross-cultural negotiations14
International operations require managers to be involved in a large
variety of negotiations: it may involve suppliers, agents, distributors,
licensees, joint venture partners, government authorities, trade unions
and employees, but also offices within the same company in other
countries. The difference between international and domestic
negotiations is not limited to the cultural backgrounds of the parties
involved. While culture as seen so far has a significant influence on
how people negotiate, some other variables can become quite
relevant once one moves into international negotiations. For example,
when dealing across borders, one needs to worry about exchange
rates. Wild exchange rate fluctuations can quickly either create a profit
windfall or wipe out profits. That is not usually a concern when one is
negotiating within one’s own country. Other elements to take into
account are international and national political instabilities, the
potentially different degree of governmental interventionism in the
economy and the different political, economic and judicial systems.
While on a day-to-day basis some of these may not seem particularly
important, a lack of consideration of these international negotiation
variables can doom investments, destroy relationships or end with
contracts that mean nothing more than an empty piece of paper.
  In the next section we will look at three frameworks of analysis and
negotiations: the bargaining framework, the process framework and
the ritual framework. These will be followed by the international and
cultural dimensions of negotiations.

The bargaining framework
A very simple model of negotiation is provided in Figure 3.2. In this
model negotiations are reduced to a buyer and a seller seeking to
settle a transaction: an export contract or a project, the acquisition of
a company or part of it, a licensing contract or a joint venture
agreement, to more subjective or non-monetary negotiations such as
the settlement of a court dispute or the agreement on a partnership
strategy, where one party sells their preferred idea to their
counterparty (buyer). In more monetary-focused or price negotiations,
the seller implicitly (and sometimes explicitly) has a reservation price
which is the price below which the seller is ready to walk away
because there is a better alternative at this price.15 For the buyer the
situation is symmetrically similar. Notice that some negotiations are not
just about price or not about price at all, in which case the negotiation
may take a different direction.
   Generally, in price negotiations, the reservation price will be
modified by an uncertainty factor because forecasts of the potential
benefits or costs are always affected by risks. In such cases, it is
common for the parties to resort to a bargaining process, where the
seller’s opening offer (usually reflective of their aspiration prices and
perceived uncertainties) in the negotiation will generally be higher than
their reservation price and the buyer’s will be lower than their
reservation price. Culturally speaking, the distance between initial
offers and the final deal may differ dramatically. In some cultures, it is
expected that the parties will open with offers close to a reasonable
final price, where in other cultures it is accepted and even expected
that the parties may start with offers significantly far away from a final
price, reasonable or not. The negotiation then takes the form of a
ritual, which again can differ significantly from country to country,
through which the negotiators will seek to bargain in the hopes of
finding an agreement in the bargaining range (a.k.a. ZOPA or Zone of
Possible Agreement), as seen in Figure 3.2. If the seller is a better
bargainer the price may end up close to the buyer’s reservation price
and vice versa. But at the end, provided the agreement is within the
bargaining range, one obtains a compromise in which both parties get
a deal that is better than their walk-away alternatives.




Figure 3.2 Framework for negotiation with reference to international contracts

The negotiation process framework
Fisher, Ury and Patton (2011) define seven elements of a negotiation,
which work together like the different parts of anatomy. Each move of
a negotiation can be classified as one or more of these elements
(Figure 3.3).
Figure 3.3 Negotiation Process Source: authors’ own construction adapted from Fisher, Ury
and Patton (2011).

  According to the authors a successful process of a negotiation can
be evaluated according to these seven attributes:

1   Relationship between the parties: A good working relationship
  is the ability of negotiators to work together productively and
  respectfully, despite their differences and without suspicion and
  abrasiveness.
2         Effective two-way communication: In good two-way
  communication negotiators are listening as well as speaking with
  clarity and patience. A well-crafted message can minimize the need
  for repeti-tion and the risk of misunderstanding.
3     Satisfy interests, not positions: Positions are the parties’
  inflexible demands. Fights over positions are at the heart of win–
  lose negotiations while focusing on interests that are the real
  motivations for the negotiation is conducive to a win–win
  conclusion.
4    Many possible options: Bringing as many options as possible
  can enhance the likelihood of finding at least one solution that
  works for all parties.
5    Arguments based on legitimacy so that all parties believe
  them to be fair: A legitimate argument is an argument that is
  considered as fair, based on real facts and not a game played on
  deceptive or manipulative arguments. In practice, each negotiator
  can come up with several legitimate arguments per option. It is the
  exercise of working together to find an option that makes sense to
  all parties and encourages them to continue negotiating in a win–
  win way.
6   Well-planned commitment: Agreements made in the course of,
  or at the end of, a negotiation should be:

    • Clear: The parties should have the same understanding of what
    is agreed without reading between the lines.
  •    Sufficient: It should cover the negotiators’ important issues,
    thus reducing the need for additional negotiations or
    renegotiations.
  •    Operational: The parties should be sure of their abilities and
    resources to implement the deal.
7      Deal better than the best alternative to a negotiated
  agreement (BATNA) for each party: Before agreeing, it is helpful
  for each party to compare the deal at hand to the BATNA. This
  helps to recognize if a deal is realistically good or bad and allows
  the parties to accept or reject it.

The negotiation ritual framework
From a normative point of view negotiation should generally follow a
‘ritual’ sequential six-stage pattern:

    a   Pre-negotiation: each party prepares its negotiation strategy
    b  Climate setting: introduction of negotiators, greetings, physical
      context
    c Presentation: agenda-setting, opening statements
    d  Mid-point bargaining: substantive debate, request for
      clarification, search for common ground, trial ‘concessions’
    e Closure: binding concessions offered, search for agreements,
      final drafting/signing
    f Post-negotiation: ratification of agreements by corporate
      headquarters, or government bodies.

Cultural aspect of negotiating
As mentioned in the beginning of the chapter there are many
dimensions of cultural differences such as corporate cultures, industry
cultures, professional cultures and national or ethnic cultures. As such
one can say that any negotiation is a cross-cultural exercise to which
the international dimension is only one element. However, international
managers are confronted with this additional dimension when
negotiating with foreign counterparts. This dimension can be made
more complex when dealing with negotiating teams made of members
of different nationalities, as is often the case when dealing with
multinational companies.
   There can be a large amount of cultural diversity in approaches and
behaviours during these stages. According to Jeswald W. Salacuse,16
international negotiations are affected by culture in ten ways:

1  Goal: is the negotiation conceived as a way to conclude a contract
  (generally US approach) or to build a relationship (generally Asian
  or Latin approach)?
2 Strategy: is the choice of using or not using power an approach to
  lead to a mutual benefit (win–win) or to have one side winning over
  the other (win–lose)?
3   Style: is it formal (stick to strict rules) or informal (personal,
  friendly, off-the-record talks)?
4 Communication: is the negotiation direct (to the point, business-
  like, clear messages) or indirect (implicit messages, ambiguous
  gestures)?
5  Time: does it involve punctuality and firm deadlines or flexibility
  and elasticity of deadlines?
6 Emotions: showing personal emotion or not during negotiations?
7  Form of agreement: is it very specific and detailed or a general
  framework?
8 Flow process: is the negotiation to start from general principles
  and proceed to specific items (deduc-tive process) or is it
  considered a collection of specific items (inductive)?
9  Team organization: is there one team leader or is there
  consensus among negotiators?
10 Risk taking: do negotiators accept ambiguity and show willingness
  to find new approaches and share information or try to avoid
  revealing too much and departing from a well-known negotiation
  platform?

Another factor not mentioned in this list is the difference of approach
used for influencing the behaviour of the other party: whether one will
use a direct approach (either threatening, persuading or
demonstrating) or an indirect one (calling for sympathy, referring to
personal stakes).17
   Figure 3.4 gives a pictorial representation of those cultural
negotiating traits, with some indication of which type of culture tends
to one side or the other, while Table 3.8, using different criteria,
summarizes the key differences between American and Japanese
approaches. However, we should observe that, with the increased
globalization of firms, multi-cultural teams are more and more engaged
in negotiation, making the cultural stereotypes less and less relevant.
It may well be that a British firm will send a negotiating team led by a
French division head, with an Irish lawyer, a Singaporean controller
and a Brazilian engineer. Which negotiation culture would prevail
remains to be seen!
Figure 3.4 Negotiation attributes and cultural differences
Source: Authors’ own figure, based on text of Salacuse (2003) and Brett (2001).

Table 3.8 Impact of culture on negotiating behaviour: a comparison of American and Japanese
responses


 Negotiation                       Typical American           Typical Japanese
 parameters                        response                   response
 Basic approach to                 Transactional;             Structured; strategic;
 business in general               profit-oriented;           starting from trust
                                   detail-conscious;
                                   legalistic
 Central purpose of                Reaching                   Launching a long-term
 negotiation                       agreement on a             relationship
                                   contract
 Selection criteria for            Verbally articulate        Rank; position; ‘social
 negotiator(s)                     generalists;               competence’
                                   technical
                                   competence;
                                   ‘rational abilities’
 Appropriate number                Few                        Many: in order to
of negotiators                                   demonstrate
                                                 seriousness and for
                                                 functional coverage,
                                                 including learning

Appropriate role(s) of    Key participant:       None: seen as
lawyers(s)                leader, contract       adversarial trouble-
                          advisor, and/or        makers
                          draftsperson
Attitude toward           Top-down decision      Consensual, middle-up
decision-making           making; very high      decision making (ringi
process, and              degree of              seido); little or no
appropriate degree of     delegation of          authority delegated to
delegation of authority   authority              negotiators
to negotiators
Appropriate tone for      Direct; informal;      Highly indirect; highly
negotiation and           familiar;              formal; hierarchical;
communication             egalitarian; candid    reserved

Negotiators’ interest in Little or none;         Acute; personal
personal feelings and irrelevant or              rapport essential to
values of counterparts improper; logic           establish trust (ningen
                         more important          kankei)
                         than emotions;
                         issues more
                         important than
                         personalities
Appropriateness of        Inappropriate;         Highly appropriate;
socializing with          unacceptable;          traditional behaviour;
counterparts              risks conflicts of     also ritualized gift-
                          interest and loss of   giving
                          personal control

Attitude toward time      Acutely time-          Patience is the key
during negotiations       conscious; ‘time is
                       money’; impatient

Attitude toward        Strongly averse;       Essential: for decorum
silence during         uncomfortable; ‘fill   and for non-verbal
negotiations           the void’              communication and
                                              empathy (haragei)

Reaction to cross-     Unaware; or            Aware of differences
cultural signals       consider them
                       unimportant

Attitude toward        Strongly attracted     Unimportant
sequential             to both
bargaining and
negotiating progress
Attitude toward        Open; willing          Collect it avidly, but do
sharing information                           not give it out

Attitude toward        Essential for a        Not necessary or even
closure                successful             important; take the
                       negotiation;           long view
                       results-oriented,
                       not process-
                       oriented
Form of the contract   Long; detailed;        Prefer very short; and
                       covering all           limited to general
                       foreseeable            principles and
                       contingencies          affirmations
Commitment to the      Totally binding        Weak; the relationship
contract                                      is what counts, not the
                                              document; changing
                                              conditions will
                                              necessitate later
                                              amendments
Source: Sunshine (1990). Reproduced with permission from International Development Law
Institute.


Recommendations in international negotiations

Different negotiating styles have different impacts on outcomes, and
managers engaged in international negotiations should be aware that
a certain number of precautions should be taken, and
recommendations followed to minimize failure owing to cultural hang-
ups. The following checklist provides a useful list of prescriptions.18

Sunshine’s checklist:

1  Anticipate objective differences across borders such as exchange
  rate history among the currencies of the different negotiation
  parties, international and national political instabilities, the
  potentially different degree of governmental interventionism in the
  economy in different countries and the different political, economic
  and judicial systems.
2    Understand one’s own cultural ‘lens’ using a list of negotiation
  parameters such as those in Figure 3.3 and Table 3.7.
3     Understand the other party’s cultural ‘lens’ using a similar
  checklist. Table 3.8 shows the typical attitudes of Chinese
  negotiators.
4      List negotiation items that are likely to be affected by cultural
    differences and anticipate counterparts’ responses. Normally, how
    to build trust and express emotions, as well as the different
    process preferences, or the amount or manner of information
    sharing are some of the negotiation aspects most affected across
    cultures. To a lesser extent, look at how cultures differ in their
    preference for different interests and what values and arguments
    are considered most persuasive when allocating resources (e.g.
    some cultures are more convinced by seniority arguments, while
    others value more meritocracy). Finally, cultures differ in how they
    make decisions, how binding commitments are, how to reach them
    and how to interpret them if there are problems, as well as their
    willingness to walk away from bad deals.
5    Assess potential responses and list those that are likely to fit and
    those that are likely to conflict.
6          Try to disentangle ‘cultural’ divergences from ‘business’
    divergences in order to be ready to adjust behaviour and avoid
    being trapped in ‘cultural’ clashes.
7    While negotiating, translate not only language, but also behaviours
    and the intention behind them.
8     Ask, ask, ask to learn, challenge assumptions and stereotypes,
    and adjust your negotiation strategy as you progress.
9     Be ready to invest more time because international negotiations
    have more variables, obstacles and differences than national
    negotiations, and thus they will on average take longer.

  In a Harvard Business School article, Erin Meyer gives some
practical recommendations for communication in a cross-cultural
negotiation.

Meyer’s checklist:

1   Adapt the way to express disagreement: In some cultures open
  disagreement may be seen as positive if it’s expressed calmly and
  factually (for example in Russia) while in other cultures the same
  behaviour would provoke anger (for example in Thailand).
2    Know how to calibrate self-expression: In some cultures it’s
  common – and entirely appropriate – during negotiations to voice
  when excited, laugh passionately, touch counterparts on the arm or
  even put a friendly arm around them (for example in Brazil). In
  other cultures such self-expression not only feels intrusive or
  surprising but may even demonstrate a lack of professionalism (for
  example in Germany).
3 Learn how the other culture builds trust: Trust can be divided into
  two categories: cognitive and affective. Cognitive trust is based on
  the confidence you feel in someone’s accomplishments, skills and
  reliability. It comes from the head (Cartesian Northern European for
  instance). Affective trust arises from feelings of emotional
  closeness, empathy, or friendship. It comes from the heart (most
  Asian or African cultures).
4 Avoid yes-or-no questions: In some societies the word ‘yes’ may
  be used when the real meaning is no. This is particularly so in
  Indonesia where a blunt no is considered as a loss of face for the
  other party.
5    Look for cultural bridges: A third party who is knowledgeable
  about the two cultures of the negotiators can be very helpful in
  minimizing misunderstandings or communication failures.
6 Be careful of the binding strength of written agreements: One has
  to consider that in some societies where the legal system is based
  on traditions a written document does not carry the same binding
  strength as in Napoleonic or common law legal systems.
Table 3.9 Chinese business negotiation style


                    Chinese negotiation        Relevance for foreign
                    characteristics            negotiators
 Team        • Often large team of      • Appoint a team leader
 composition   varying competence         of equal or higher
             • Team leader is not         status to that of the
               necessarily the most       Chinese leader
               competent or the most • Identify who is
               influential, but has the   knowledgeable and
               highest status             who are the ‘real’
             • Some team                  negotiators
               participants may rotate • Appoint a competent
                                          business negotiator
                                        • Maintain the same
                                          team over time
 Courtesy,          •    Dignity has to be     •   Keep conversations
 etiquette,      maintained                                polite
 social        • Social status                         •    Save face (yours and
 relationships • Ritual and protocol                       colleagues’) by not
 and trust       must be observed                          openly criticizing other
               • Importance of                             team members or
                 saving/not losing face                    Chinese delegates
               • Importance of                         •    Cultivate personal
                 personal relationships                    relationships
                 in forming business link              •    Participate in
               • Banquets, gifts are                       banquets, give gifts and
                 signs of trust and good                   respect etiquette
                 relationships                         •    Resist any temptation
                                                           to question the honesty
                                                           or motives of the other
                                                           party (implies mistrust)
                                                       •    Eye contact should be
                                                           avoided
 Negotiation       •  A successful                     •   Make sure that the
 approaches          negotiation should lead             other party is never left
                     to a win–win situation              in the position of a
                   • ‘Yes’ is not often ‘yes’            ‘loser’
                   • Take time over                    • Avoid showing undue
                     negotiations                        haste to conclude deals
                   • ‘Sweet and sour’                  • Don’t jump to
                     (carrot and stick)                  conclusions
                     approaches                        • Don’t speak too much,
                                                         take time to listen as
                                                         well

Source: Authors’ compilation based on discussions in Fang (1997, 2006); Woo and
Prud’homme (1999); Herbig and Martin (1999).


Business practices

‘Business practices’ refers to the day-to-day interactions that
managers have with customers, suppliers, partners and government
officials. As well as the negotiation styles described earlier, three
categories of practice are impacted by cultural differences: etiquette,
relations and competition:

•   Business etiquette represents the set of rituals that take place
  when people communicate in business dealings. It includes the way
  people address each other, speak, dress, eat, stand, sit,
  gesticulate, pose and deal with time.
• Relations involves the way business transactions are established,
  whether personal relationships or legal/technical matters are the
  prime ingredient of transactions.
• Competition indicates how competitive advantages are obtained.
  In some countries, competition is perceived and practised as a fair
  game in which products, services and performances are compared
  and the winner ultimately decided on. In other countries, different
  criteria such as ethnic belonging, family connections or political
  considerations can determine the winner.

     Table 3.10 shows examples of such practices.
Table 3.10 Business practice differences


    Practice       Definition              Examples
    Etiquette
    Addressing     How to name the         •  In Malaysia, nobility titles
                   other person              are the proper form of
                                             address (Encik, Tan)
                                           • In France, people are
                                             addressed by their title
                                             (Monsieur le Directeur)
                                           • In the USA, the first name
                                             is normal
                                           • In Japan, the exchange of
                                             business cards is critical
Gesturing   How to position          •  Showing the soles of the
            oneself and how to         feet offends Arabs
            use body language        • Left-hand shaking is not
                                       proper in Muslim countries
                                     • Finger-pointing is
                                       considered to be highly
                                       threatening and impolite in
                                       Asia
Dressing    Dress code               •    Malaysian businessmen
                                         use jacket and tie while in
                                         Singapore a long-sleeved
                                         shirt is normal business
                                         attire
Eating      Importance of meals      •  French business
            in business dealing        transactions usually take
            Behaviour at the table     place at a lunch or dinner
                                       table
                                     • Chinese banquets and
                                       sometimes drinking
                                       punctuate deals
Timing      How to manage time       •  Signs of impatience are
                                       considered improper in
                                       many cultures
                                     • Lengthy preliminaries are
                                       usual in the Middle East
Talking     Importance of verbal     • Silent pauses are the norm
            communication            in China or Japan
Relations

Engaging    Importance given to      •    Most Asian countries
            establishing personal        prioritize the personalization
            relationships in             of contacts before
            business
                                          engaging in business
                                          transactions
Contracting Importance given to       •    Legal contracting is the
            overall agreement on          norm in the USA while
            principles versus             broad-brush agreements
            details                       are considered satisfactory
                                          in Japan
Competing
Advantages Product technology         •    In China, connections
           versus personal                (guanxi) are still a very
           connections as a               important factor in
           source of competitive          competitive advantage
           advantage
Supplying   Preference given to       •    In Asia the notion of
            friends and families in       ‘extended families’ implies
            supply contracts              that preferential treatment
                                          will be given to
                                          families/friends for




 MINI-CASE 3.1

 Working across cultures: the engineering
 consultants’ clashes
 In mid-2005 Gunawan Wiboto (Gunawan), an ethnic Chinese
 Indonesian entrepreneur and founder of the Ramayana Group,
 decided to build a steel mill incorporated as a new company: PT
 Hanuman Steel. His team began the search for an experienced
 engineering consultant for the project. The company approached
 several consulting firms reputed for their engineering services.
The difficulty, as they quickly discovered, was finding a consultant
who believed they could do it their way and be successful.
  The required services fell into four stages: basic design,
detailed      engineering,     procurement    and      construction.
Representatives from four selected reputable international
consultants submitted their proposals. On 3 January 2006, the
John Smith Engineering Consultant Corp., headquartered in
Melbourne, was awarded the contract for the basic design
development phase.

John Smith and the basic design – development
phase

The John Smith team began work quickly and efficiently.
According to Hanuman Steel’s Chief Engineer, ‘The rapport was
excellent. They treated us as personal guests, and we did the
same when they came to Surabaya.’
   The first ripples of disturbance appeared when a team of
specialists from John Smith travelled to Indonesia for an on-the-
spot investigation. On matters related to engineering work, the
relationship between the two firms remained good. It was the
financial side, and specifically the construction budget and the
overall cost of the project, that caused the first rifts to appear.
When Hanuman Steel looked at Smith’s costing, they found they
were ‘way out – they were engineers, not commercial people’. If
the design side went well, the commercial side
   proved far more contentious; the relationship finally foundered
over budget disagreements concerning the three remaining
phases. Smith’s estimated cost for the procurement and the
construction of the mill was $100 million. Hanuman Steel
estimated it at $50 million. Smith’s schedule for completion of the
project was thirty-six months, Hanuman Steel’s was eighteen
months.
   At this stage, Gunawan concluded that his interests were no
longer being served, and, as the basic design phase of the
project was coming to an end, he decided to opt for a different
consultant for the following phases.

A failed attempt: Lars Corp

Gunawan and his Chief Engineer visited Stockholm to sound out
Lars Corp, a Swedish firm that had already worked on the
preliminary blueprint of the project. Lars was selected for the
phases of detailed engineering, procurement and construction. At
the end of November 2006, draft contract in hand, Hanuman Steel
negotiators went to Stockholm to finalize the agreement.
Negotiations were difficult because Lars adopted a very legalistic
approach. But finally an agreement was reached and Gunawan
flew to Stockholm to sign the contract. A celebra-tion dinner was
held. The next morning, Gunawan discovered that Lars’ president
had left for the USA. However, before leaving he had drawn up a
letter of understanding, signed it and sent it to the hotel. Inserted
in this document, Gunawan found a clause concerning
performance guarantees that was ‘totally against the spirit of
everything we had discussed’. The clause, which had not been
previously seen or discussed by the Hanuman Steel people, had
‘turned a fixed price contract into an open contract’. Other
clauses, already agreed, had also been changed. To Gunawan,
the message was clear – it indicated a lack of trust in him and his
company. Utterly frustrated by this development, Gunawan
refused to sign the document and flew directly to Pittsburgh to
meet Tom Brown, a short-listed US consultant.

Another try: Tom Brown

Shortly after Gunawan’s visit to Brown, a meeting was held
between the staff of the two companies. On Hanuman Steel’s
side, concern centred on the juxtaposition of low costs and high
quality, and achieving the right balance. The director of
engineering at Brown’s was ‘a polished, very polite and
persuasive gentleman’. He and the Hanuman Steel team
discussed the project in Pittsburgh for two weeks, aided by visits
from Gunawan and the Brown director’s boss. Between them,
they covered all the ground in deciding who should do what; what
should be Hanuman Steel’s responsibility and what Brown’s, and
what they should do jointly. Shortly after, Brown’s president, Tom
Brown, accompanied by the man who would be in charge of the
project, flew to Surabaya to sign a letter of understanding. In
February 2007, a cross-cultural seminar organized by Hanuman
Steel’s two European consultants took place in Pittsburgh,
attended by people from Hanuman Steel and Brown’s. The
practical outcome, it was hoped, would be to resolve problems
before they arose and forge a team spirit.
    Despite these efforts, a feeling of uneasi-ness began to surface
on the Hanuman Steel side during the early meetings to prepare
for the
    supplier negotiations. Hanuman Steel found that Brown’s was
‘building in safety feature after safety feature, which gave us
serious doubts about the eventual cost of the project’. The
breaking point came over a much more important issue. Brown’s
had agreed to give Hanuman Steel two almost unconditional bank
bonds which it could cash if the project failed. However, Brown’s
appeared to have second thoughts about the bank bonds, and its
failure to issue them turned into a serious problem. Hanuman
Steel then withdrew its team and sent Brown’s a letter noting that
‘under the circum-stances, we feel we cannot work together.
Thank you very much.’
    Gunawan had learnt his most important lesson: ‘Even when you
have everything in a written contract, it doesn’t mean you will get
it.’ These problems had been exacerbated by the cultural gulf
between the two sides. Gunawan’s entrepreneurial approach and
determination to keep his budget adjusted for local conditions,
coupled with the Indonesian preference for keeping their financial
plans flexible and in shades of grey, was diametrically opposed to
the European and North American desire to play it safe – to have
everything set in concrete down to the finest detail, with every
guarantee possible and every contingency allowed for. As
Hanuman Steel eventually discovered, what they were asking for
was outside the experience of the conservative Western
consultants. It created a clash of two very different cultures.

Questions:

1    How do you assess the situation?
2    Do you think Gunawan was being unreasonable?
3   Do you think the Western consultants did not understand the
  Indonesian context and culture?
4 How much were the clashes caused by cultural differences as
  opposed to commercial ones?
Source: Based on authors’ own work.




MINI-CASE 3.2

Brazil

The Republic of Brazil is the largest country in South and Central
America. Numerous indigenous tribes predated the arrival of the
explorer Pedro Álvares Cabral who claimed the territory for
Portugal in 1500. Brazil remained a Portuguese colony until
independence in 1822, and the creation of the Empire of Brazil.
The country became a presidential republic in 1889. A military
junta governed from 1964 to 1985. Brazil’s Constitution
(established in 1988) formed the Federal Republic which is made
up of the Federal District, 26 States and 5,564 Municipalities.

Civil society
Brazilians make up a diverse multi-racial society composed of
descendants of indigenous peoples, Portuguese settlers,
enslaved people and European and Japanese immigrants.
Interracial marriages have created a tolerant and mixed society.
The Roman Catholic religion predominates, with two-thirds of the
population identifying as Catholic. There is a high income
inequality (Gini index = 55). Most of the poor are concentrated in
enclaves known as ‘favelas’.

Government

Brazil is a Federal Republic headed by the President and the Vice
President, elected every four years with the right to re-election for
one more consecutive term. The president appoints cabinet
ministers who are directly responsible to them and whom they
can dismiss at any time. The legislative body is the National
Congress, consisting of a Senate and a Chamber of Deputies.
   The Heads of the Senate and Chamber of Deputies play a
critical role in consensus building prior to key votes. They also
control large budgets and can authorize congressional inquiries. In
addition, the president of the Chamber of Deputies is third
   in the line of succession in the event of the president’s
impeachment or early death, and the president of the Senate is
fourth. Such an event took place in 2016 when President Dilma
Rousseff was deposed.
   Government in each state reflects the structure at the federal
level. States possess those powers that are not specifically
reserved for the federal government or granted to municipal
councils. States are led by a governor, elected by direct vote.
They are only allowed to serve for two consecutive terms. Each
state has an elected State Assembly.

Economy

The Brazilian economy is characterized by a huge internal market
in terms of population and natural resources. After the
dictatorship of the 1960s and 1970s, Brazil enjoyed a period of
growth but with high inflation. An austerity measure, ‘the Plano
Real’ of 1994 reduced inflation but the country still experienced a
high account deficit. During President Lula’s presidency from 2003
to 2010 the economic situation improved, and inflation was
reduced. Despite external debts, Brazil’s middle class is growing,
and poverty is declining. Although in 2015 there were still 40
million people living in poverty, this statistic compares favourably
with the early 2000s, when the figure was 60 million. However,
the economy remains vulnerable to fluctuations caused by global
crises or domestic politics. After 2010, with a reduction in China’s
imports and a decline in commodity prices, Brazil entered a
period of recession: investors’ confidence declined, and corporate
debts and bankruptcy increased. Brazil still relies on a significant
degree of government intervention to protect its local industry,
such as quotas, tariffs and local-content rules, to implement tax
breaks and subsidies to encourage demand for locally produced
goods. However, it has been estimated that 85 per cent of small
businesses do not pay taxes.

Labour markets

The acceleration of economic growth during the first decade of
the twenty-first century produced increased demand for labour.
The jobless total fell to below 6 per cent, but by 2016 it had
increased to 11 per cent.
   The ‘informal’ sector is estimated to account for 40 per cent of
GDP (90 per cent of workers in agriculture and fishing are
believed not to have formal work contracts). This informal sector
has long provided a social safety net for low earners amongst the
urban poor, and this group continues to account for the largest
proportion of workers employed in the informal sector.
   Trade union density (i.e. the proportion of sala-ried workers
that belong to a trade union) is around 18 per cent, a relatively
high percentage compared to other emerging countries.
Financial system

The Brazilian banking sector, both private and state-owned, is
growing rapidly. With more than 140 listed banking institutions, the
sector is still of a moderate size relative to the economy, with a
credit-to-GDP ratio of less than 50 per cent. The mix of state-
owned, private and foreign banks is highly concentrated, with the
five largest banks accounting for about 70 per cent of sector
assets. Banco do Brasil, the National Bank for Economic and
Social Development (BNDES), and Caixa Econômica Federal
(CAIXA) are the first-, third- and fourth-largest banks,
respectively, with nearly 40 per cent of sector assets in total – all
of them at least partly state-owned.
   Brazil also has a buoyant fintech ecosystem, being the
headquarters of Nubank, the largest digital bank in the world, with
more than 48 million customers.

Business entities

Instead of pure privatization, the Lula administration promoted
public–private partnerships (PPP). PPP companies are
enterprises with the majority of their
   stock owned by the government, but also having shares owned
by the private sector and usually traded on stock exchanges. The
take-up of this scheme has been disappointing and state-owned
companies are still playing a dominant role in the financing and
construction of large infrastructure projects. In 2017, the
government considered rule changes for the PPPs that could
make them more attractive. Banco do Brasil, Petrobras, Sabesp
and Eletrobras are examples of mixed-economy companies.
Other major companies such as Vale (mining) or Embraer
(aircraft manufacture) are former state-owned enterprises. The
Brazilian corporate landscape also includes family-owned
conglomerates such as the Votorantim group.

Society
As already noted, interracial marriages have long been a key
characteristic of Brazilian society. The cultural mixing comes from
centuries of historical development. In addition to the original
indigenous population, the colonization brought Portuguese
settlers who brought four million enslaved Africans. Since
independence around 5 million people have migrated from
different countries of origin (mainly Germany, Italy, Spain and
Japan). This high rate of mixing explains two socio-cultural
practices of contemporary Brazilian society: cordiality and
jeitinho.
   Cordiality denotes cheerful, friendly, welcoming and hospitable
people. Brazilians know they are all implicitly mixed and no one is
more or less ethnically ‘pure’ than another; in other words, nobody
is going to feel or start acting superior to anyone else.
   Jeitinho is a process by which someone reaches a goal in spite
of constraints such as laws, orders, rules and so on. It is the
antithesis of bureaucracy. While bureaucracy is theoretically
rational, imper-sonal and anonymous, jeitinho is emotional and
affective. So when someone is confronted by an obstructive
regulation, they will immediately fall back on their interpersonal
relationships in an attempt to get around the regulation by
appealing to the human beings behind it.
   Brazilian organizational cultures have, in general, been
traditionally seen as closed systems in which leaders with strong
personalities, rigid values, paternalistic patterns and highly
centralized hierarchical structures prevail. The jeitinho culture
translates in business as lack of planning and improvization: ‘Well,
there is no clear way to reach the goal, but somehow, with the
help of God, we will achieve it anyway.’ The weakness of most
employees’ commitment to and engagement with corporate life
encourages an unchallenged bureaucratic structure, which, in turn,
stifles initiative and promotes the prevalence of regimented rules.
   Since the early 2000s, profound changes in the Brazilian
economy have been gradually transforming the business climate
from paternalistic and protectionist to one of free enterprise,
especially in the economically well developed and heavily
industrialized southeastern part of the country. The
   co-existence of old and modern business structures underlines
differences in working conditions, such as retirement prerequisites
and rights, guarantees of job stability, personal and professional
advantages and so on.

Question:

Based on this mini-case and your own research, sketch a
business system analysis of Brazil.
Sources: This mini-case was compiled by the author from data collected from IHS Markit
(www.ihs.com), Wikipedia (https://en.wikipedia.org), World Bank data
(http://www.doingbusiness.org/data/exploreeconomies/brazil/) and Ferreira et al. (2004)
‘Organizational culture in Brazilian public and private companies’, Gama Filho University.

Table 3.11 Brazilian indicators


                      Economy and demography (2020)
 GDP (US$ billion)                                              1445
 GDP, PPP (US$                                                  3152
 billion)
 GDP per capita                                                 6797
 (US$)
 GDP per capita,                                                14830
 PPP (US$)
 Population, total                                              213
 (million)
 Urban population (%)                                           87%
 Gini Index                                                     53
                         Governance indicators (2020)
                                  from –2.5 to +2.5
Government                                      –0,447
effectiveness
Voice and                                       0,261
accountability
Political stability and                         –0,422
absence of violence
Regulatory quality                              –0,162
Rule of law                                     –0,176
Control of corruption                           –0,342
                  Ease of doing business (2020)
Starting a business       Rank                  138
                          Procedures            10.6
                          (number)              16.6
                          Time (days)           3.6
                          Cost (% of income
                          per capita)
Getting electricity       Rank                  98
                          Procedures            5
                          (number)              132
                          Time (days)           333
                          Cost (% of income
                          per capita)
Registering property      Rank                  133
                          Procedures            14
                          (number)              24.5
                          Time (days)           3.6
                          Cost (% of property
                          value)
Getting credit            Rank                  104
 Protecting minority           Rank                         35
 investors
 Paying taxes                  Rank              175
                               Total tax rate (% 64.7
                               profit)

 Trading across                Rank                 108
 borders                       Cost    to    export 12
                               (border compliancer 226
                               hours)
                               Cost    to    export
                               (documentary
                               compliance §)
 Enforcing contracts           Rank             58
                               Time (days)      731.0
                               Cost (% of claim 20.7
                               value)
                                LU
 Resolving insolvency          Rank                         77


Note: Overall ranking is out of 190.
Source: Data from World Bank, Ease of Doing Business Index,
http://www.doingbusiness.org/data/exploreeconomies/brazil/ (accessed 22 January
2022).


Summary and key points
1    Cross-cultural management:
    a    Potential issues are concepts, behaviours or attitudes
      being interpreted differently by different nationalities
    b Culture can potentially encompass:
        •    Layers of culture
         – Assumptions and meaning
         – Values, beliefs and preferences
         – Behaviour
2   National culture:
    a   Differences in national cultures:
        • Ethnological research (‘silent language’)
        • Differences in work-related values
         – Power distance
         – Individualism
         – Uncertainty avoidance (tolerance towards ambiguity)
         – Masculinity
        • Differences in value orientation
         – Rule-based versus relation-based behaviour
         – Individualism versus collectivism
         – Objective analytical reasoning versus
            holistic/synthetic reasoning
            –Status and respect achieved by doing versus being
            –Knowledge of ‘right’ or ‘wrong’ arises from within
             versus from society
         – Sequential time versus synchronous time
       • Cultural map
    Eight dimensions of cultural differences
         – Communication
         – Evaluation of people
         – Persuasion
         – Leadership
         – Decision making
         – Trust
         – Disagreements
        – Scheduling
3   Country clusters
    a   National grouping according to cultural traits proximity
    b       Globe’s societal culture
    c   Performance orientation
    d   Assertiveness
    e   Future orientation
    f   Humane orientation
    g       Collectivism
    h       Gender egalitarianism
    i   Power distance
    j   Uncertainty avoidance
    k   Economic culture and business system
        •      The ‘business system’ is the way economic activities
             are structured, coordinated and managed. It is the result
             of the interaction between three sub-systems:
             – Governance reflects the dominant mode of control,
                 interdependencies and exercise of authority in
                 business firms. It is made of:
                 ○   Ownership system
                 ○   Networking system
                 ○   Management system
             – Culture is constituted by the norms, values and
                 social codes of society. It is made of:
                 ○   Rationality
                 ○   Authority
                 ○   Identity
             – Institutional fabric represents the organization,
                 development and allocation of resources. It is made
                 of:
             ○ Financial capital
           ○   Human capital
           ○   Social capital
           ○   Role of the state
4   Impact of culture on management:
    a   Multi-cultural teams:
        •
        Types:
       – Business development
       – Regional headquarters
       – Corporate headquarters
       – Joint ventures and alliances
       – Task forces
      • Performance depends on:
       – ‘Rich information’ resulting from a multiplicity of
          perspectives, experiences and viewpoints
       – Possible loss of cohesion
       – Ability for team leaders to achieve group synergy
    b Negotiations:
        •   Seven elements work together in a negotiation:
          – Relationships
          – Communication
          – Interests
          – Options
          – Legitimacy
          – Commitment
          – Alternatives
        •There are commonly six stages:
          – Pre-negotiation: each party prepares for negotiation
          – Climate-setting: introduction, physical context
  –   Presenting: agenda-setting and opening statements
  –   Mid-point bargaining
  –   Closure: search for agreements, final drafting/signing
  –   Post-negotiation: ramifications of agreements
•    Impact of culture on negotiations: diversity of culture
  affects negotiations in nine ways:
  – Goal
  – Attitude
  – Style
  – Communication
  – Time
  – Emotions
  – Forms of agreement
  – Flow process
  – Risk taking
• Checklist for negotiators:
 – Understand the ‘cultural’ lens of your own and your
    counterparty’s positions
 – List negotiation items which risk being affected by
    cultural factors
 – Assess potential responses
 – Disentangle cultural divergence from business
    divergence
 – Anticipate counterparts’ responses
• Negotiation style:
 – Business etiquette: includes the way people talk,
    dress, eat, stand, pose and deal with time
 – Relation practices: the way transactions are
    established either personal or legal/technical
         –  Competition: how competitive advantages are
           obtained
         – Cultural aspects of business practices:
           ○  Etiquette
           ○  Relations
           ○  Competition

Learning assignments
1  What types of cultural differences can business managers
  experience? Give examples.
2 What is the ‘silent language’ of negotiation?
3    A lower-level manager discovers that his boss has made a
    wrong decision that could affect the company negatively.
    Looking at the various cultural norms described in the chapter,
    how would you expect this manager to behave if they were:
     a Indonesian?
    b   Danish?
4    What consequences can you draw from Laurent’s
    assumptions of management differences for the organization
    of a subsidiary in China?
5    Looking at Erin Meyer’s cultural mapping, what kind of
    problems would you anticipate for a German manager in
    Indonesia?
6    What cultural issues would you anticipate in a planned
    partnership between a UK listed e-company and a Korean
    family conglomerate?
7    Why have East Asian counties been more efficient in
    containing the Covid-19 pandemic?
8    How would you recommend an American manager plan a
    negotiation with a Japanese counterpart?
9   What real-life examples of ‘cultural misbe-haviour’ or
   misunderstandings have you experienced personally, or heard
   of? How could these have been avoided?
10 In your opinion, what is the usefulness of doing a business
   system analysis when considering whether to invest in a
   country?
11 Are the theories, models and principles taught in business
   schools all over the world progressively eliminating cultural
   differences in the management of business enterprises?

Key words
•   Business etiquette
•   Corporate culture
•   Cultural heritage
•   Economic cultures
•   Individualism
•   Industry culture
•   National/ethnic culture
•   Power distance
•   Professional culture
•   ‘Silent language’
•   Uncertainty avoidance

Web resources
McKinsey Quarterly – Teams:
http://www.mckinsey.com/featured-insights
A brief overview of the GLOBE project:
http://globe.bus.sfu.ca/study_2004_2007
     Companion website

     Visit the companion website at bloomsbury.pub/global-
     strategic-management-5e for a multitude of weblinks and
     resources, self-test questions for revision and appendices.


Notes
1  Huntington (1993: 22).
2  Ricks (1993).
3  Laurent (1986).
4  Hall (1960).
5  Hofstede (1980).
6  Trompenaars 1993).
7  Laurent (1986).
8  Meyer (2014b).
9  Weber ([1905] 1930).
10 Albert (1991); Berger and Dore (1996); Trompenaars (1993); Whitley (2007).
11  Redding (2005); Redding and Witt (2007); Whitley (1999); Witt (2010); Witt and
   Redding (2014).
12 Adler (1997); Neeley (2015).
13 Stumpf and Zeutchel (2001).
14 This part benefited from the contribution of Horacio Falcao Affliate Professor of
   Decision Sciences, INSEAD
15 Negotiation theorists call this point the BATNA: best alternative to a negotiated
   agreement. See Raiffa (1982) as well as Fisher and Ury (1991).
16 Salacuse (2003).
17 Salacuse (2003); Brett (2001)
18 This list is from Sunshine (1990: 77–81).


References and further reading
Adler, N. (1997) International Dimension of Organizational Behavior (Cincinnati, OH:
  South Western College Publishing).
Albert, M. (1991) Capitalisme contre Capitalisme (Paris: Seuil).
Berger, P. (1986) The Capitalist Revolution (New York, NY: Basic Books).
Berger, S. and Dore, R. (eds) (1996) National Diversity and Global Capitalism (Ithaca,
  NY: Cornell University Press).
Brake, T., Medina, D. and Walker, T. (1994) Doing Business Internationally: Guide to
  Cross Cultural Success (New York, NY: McGraw-Hill).
Brett, J. M. (2001) Negotiating Globally (San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass).
Chhokar, J. S., Brodbeck, F. C. and House, R. J. (2007) Culture and Leadership Across
  The World: The GLOBE Book of In-Depth Studies of 25 Societies (New York, NY:
   Lawrence Erlbaum Associates).
Chu, C. (1991) The Asian Mind Game: Unlocking the Hidden Agenda of the Asian
   Business Culture: A Westerner’s Survival Manual (New York, NY: Rawson
   Associates).
Coyle, D. (2018) The Culture Code: The Secrets of Highly Successful Groups (New
   York, NY: Bantam Books).
Daher, N. (2019) ‘Elaboration on the relationship between cultural intelligence and the
   expatriates cross-cultural adaptation’, International Journal of Business and Public
   Administration, 16 (1), Spring: 56–73.
Dorfman, P., Javidan, M., Hanges, P., Dastmalchian, A. and House, R. (2012) ‘GLOBE: a
   twenty year journey into the intriguing world of culture and leadership’, Journal of World
   Business, 47: 504–18.
Falcao, H. (2010)) Value Negotiation: How to Finally Get the Win–Win Right (London:
   Pearson Education).
Fang, T. (1997) Chinese Business Negotiation Style: A Socio-Cultural Approach
   (Linköping: Linköping University Press).
Fang, T. (2006) ‘Negotiation: the Chinese style’, Journal of Business and Industrial
   Marketing, 21 (1): 50–60.
Fisher, R. and Ury, W. (1991) Getting to Yes (New York, NY: Penguin Books).
Fisher, R., Ury, W. and Patton, B. (2011) Getting to Yes: Negotiating Agreement Without
   Giving In (London: Random House Business).
Gahuri, P. and Usunier, J. C. (1996) International Business Negotiations (Oxford:
   Pergamon Press).
Geertz, C. (1973) The Interpretation of Culture (New York, NY: Basic Books).
Hall, E. (1960) ‘The silent language in overseas business’, Harvard Business Review,
   May–June: 87–96.
Hall, E. and Reed Hall, M. (1990) Understanding Cultural Differences (Yarmouth, ME:
   Intercultural Press).
Hampden-Turner, C. and Trompenaars, F. (2000) Building Cross-Cultural Competence
   (Chichester: John Wiley).
Helmold, M., Dathe, T., Hummel, F., Terry, B. and Pieper, J. (eds) (2020) Successful
   International Negotiations: A Practical Guide for Managing Transactions and Deals
   (London: Springer).
Herbig, P. and Martin, D. (1999) ‘Negotiating with Chinese: a cultural perspective’, Cross
   Cultural Management: an International Journal, 5 (3): 40–54.
Ho-Won Jeong (2016) International Negotiations: Process and Strategies (Cambridge:
   Cambridge University Press).
Hofstede, G. (1980) Culture’s Consequences: International Differences in Work-related
   Values (Beverly Hills, CA: Sage).
Hofstede, G. and Minkov, M. (2010) ‘Long-versus short-term orientation: new
   perspectives Asia’, Pacific Business Review, 16 (4), October: 493–504.
House, R. J., Hanges, P. J., Javidan, M., Dorfman, P. W. and Gupta, V. (2004) Culture,
   Leadership and Organizations: The GLOBE Study of 62 Societies (Thousand Oaks,
   CA: Sage).
Huntington, S. P. (1993) ‘The clash of civilizations?’, Foreign Affairs, 72 (3): 22–49.
Huntington, S. P. (1997) The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order
   (London: Simon & Schuster).
Inglehart, R. and Baker, W. (2000) ‘Modernization, cultural change and the persistence of
   traditional values’, American Sociological Review, 65 (1): 19–51.
Jackson, T. (1995) Cross Cultural Management (London: Butterworth-Heinemann).
Kremenyuk, V. (1996) International Negotiation: Analysis, Approaches, Issues (San
  Francisco: Jossey-Bass).
Laurent, A. (1986) ‘The cross-cultural puzzle of global human resource management’,
  Human Resources Management, 25 (1): 91–102.
Lawrence, P. R. and Lorsch, W. J. (1969) Organization and Environment (New York, NY:
  Irwin).
Levi-Strauss, C. (1971) L’Homme Nu (Paris: Plon).
Lewis, R. D. (1996) When Cultures Collide: Managing Successfully Across Cultures
  (London: Nicholas Brealey). See also http://www.crossculture.com/about-us/the-
  model/ (accessed 1 February 2022).
Mead, M. (1953) Coming of Age in Samoa (New York, NY: Modern Library).
Meyer, E. (2014a) The Culture Map: Breaking Through the Invisible Boundaries of Global
  Business (New York, NY: Public Affairs).
Meyer, E. (2014b) ‘Navigating the cultural minefield: learn how to work more effectively
  with people from other countries’, Harvard Business Review, 92 (5): 119–23.
Meyer, E. (2015a) ‘When culture doesn’t translate: how to expand abroad without losing
  your company mojo’, Harvard Business Review, 93 (10): 66–72.
Meyer, E. (2015b) ‘Getting to sí, ja, oui, hai, and da: how to negotiate across culture’,
  Harvard Business Review, 93 (12): 74–80.
Meyer, E. (2017) ‘Being the boss in Brussels, Boston, and Beijing’, Harvard Business
  Review, 95 (4): 70–7.
Neeley, T. (2015) ‘Global teams that work’, Harvard Business Review, 93 (10): 74–81.
Raiffa, H. (1982) The Art and Science of Negotiation (Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press).
Redding, G. (1990) The Spirit of Chinese Capitalism (Berlin: De Gruyter).
Redding, G. (ed.) (1995) International Cultural Differences (Brookfield, VT: Dartmouth
  College, International Library of Management).
Redding, G. (2001) ‘Convergence or divergence at the Millennium’, INSEAD Euro Asia
  Centre, Working Paper No. 70.
Redding, G. (2005) ‘The thick description and comparison of societal systems of
  capitalism’, Journal of International Business Studies, 35: 122–55.
Redding, G. and Witt, M. A. (2007) The Future of Chinese Capitalism: Choices and
  Chances (Oxford: Oxford University Press).
Ricks, D. A. (1993) Blunders in International Business (Malden, MA: Blackwell Business).
Ronen, S. and Shenkar, O. (1985) ‘Clustering countries on attitudinal dimensions: a
  review and synthesis’, Academy of Management Review, 10 (3): 435–54.
Salacuse, J. (2003) The Global Negotiator: Making, Managing, and Mending Deals
  around the World in the Twenty-First Century (Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan).
Schein, E. (1985) Organizational Culture and Leadership (San Francisco, CA: Jossey-
  Bass).
Schneider, S. C. and Barsoux, J.-L. (1997) Managing Across Cultures (London: Prentice-
  Hall).
Stahl, G., Maznevski, M., Voigt, A. and Jonsen, K. (2010) ‘Unraveling the effects of cultural
  diversity in teams: a meta-analysis of research on multicultural work groups’, Journal
  of International Business Studies, 41: 690–709.
Stahl, G., Maznevski, M. and Jonsen, K. (2021) ‘Unraveling the effects of cultural diversity
  in teams: a retrospective of researchon multicultural work groups and agenda for future
  research’, Journal of International Business Studies, 52: 4–22.
Stumpf, S. and Zeutchel, U. (2001) ‘Synergy effects in multinational work groups: what
  we know and what we don’t know’, in M. Mendenhall, T. Kühlman and G. Stahl (eds),
  Developing Global Business Leaders (Westport, CT: Quorum Books), 175–94.
Sunshine, R. B. (1990) Negotiating for International Development, International
  Development Law Institute (Dordrecht: Martinus Nijhoff).
Trompenaars, F. (1993) Riding the Waves of Cultural Differences: Understanding
  Cultural Differences in Business (London: Nicholas Brealey).
Trompenaars, F. and Hampden-Turner, C. (2000) Riding the Waves of Cultural
  Differences: Understanding Cultural Differences in Business, 3rd edn (London:
  Nicholas Brealey).
Weber, M. ([1905] 1930) The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism. Trans. T.
  Parsons and A. Giddens (London: Unwin Hyman). Originally published in 1905 as Die
  protestantische Ethik und der Geist des Kapitalismus.
Whitley, R. D. (1992) Business Systems in East Asia: Firms, Markets and Societies
  (London: Sage).
Whitley, R. D. (1999) Divergent Capitalisms (Oxford: Oxford University Press).
Whitley, R. D. (2007) Business Systems and Organizational Capabilities: The Institutional
  Structuring of Competitive Competences (Oxford: Oxford University Press).
Witt, M. A. (2010) Guide to Business Systems, Technical Note, INSEAD.
Witt, M. A. and Redding, G. (eds) (2014) The Oxford
Handbook of Asian Business Systems (Oxford: Oxford University Press).
Woo, H. S. and Prud’homme, C. (1999) ‘Cultural characteristics prevalent in the Chinese
  negotiation process’, European Business Review, 99: 313–22.
World Bank (2020) Ease of Doing Business Index.
  http://www.doingbusiness.org/data/exploreeconomies/brazil/ (accessed 1 February
  2022).
Chapter 4

Globalization, sustainable development
and social responsibility




 At the end of the chapter you should be able to:

 •     Understand the domains of sustainable development and
   social responsibility
 •     Participate in the formulation of environmentally friendly
   policies
 •     Understand the social responsibility of global firms in
   maintaining appropriate practices with regard to child labour,
   human rights and labour conditions
 •   Understand the causes and effects of corruption in business
   and the role that a global company can play in fighting
   corruption
 • Understand the many aspects of global citizenship
 •   Understand the role of codes of conduct and of global non-
   governmental organizations (NGOs)
Introduction
Globalization has had, and still has, deep social, political and
environmental consequences. The effects of globalization on society
and general welfare are often challenged on the grounds that
globalization tends to affect the environment, widens the gap between
rich and poor and encourages practices that are detrimental to the
well-being of the world population, particularly people in developing
countries. On the environmental front, global firms are accountable for
the acceleration of mining, agricultural and transportation activities,
generated by foreign investments and global trade, that have added
additional stresses on climate, resource depletion and species
diversity. On ethical issues, multinational firms, as the agents of
globalization, are front-line targets of critics who blame them for
misconduct in a vast array of domains, such as corruption,
encroachment on human rights, child labour, tax evasion and poor
citizenship. This chapter tries to address some of the issues that
global companies face in dealing with the natural environment and the
societies in which they operate, with a particular emphasis on the kind
of ethical dilemmas that firms and global managers have to confront in
their worldwide operations.
   Most of these ecological, ethical and societal issues are not limited
to global enterprises (for instance, a purely domestic firm can be
accused of corruption or pollution), and this chapter does not pretend
to give exhaustive coverage of business ethics in general. It
concentrates only on how these affect global operations. Figure 4.1
shows the two main categories considered in this chapter:
environmental issues and societal issues complemented by the role of
global firms as global citizens.
Figure 4.1 Sustainable development and the global firm


Sustainable development
The concept of sustainable development was first introduced in 1987
by the World Commission on Environment and Development, in what is
known as the ‘Brundtland Report’.1 It was defined as ‘development
that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability
of future generations to meet their own needs’. According to the World
Business Council for Sustainable Development, ‘development means
the building of societies in which people are able to enjoy security,
good health, decent housing, clean water and modern power
supplies’.2 In order to be sustainable, development demands a
respectful, careful and, ideally, renewable utilization of natural
resources, as well as the protection of the ecological system.
Sustainable development is the subject of global meetings of political
leaders discussing what measures can be taken to preserve the
planet. The first such meeting was held in Rio de Janeiro in 1992 and
contained a declaration of principles within twenty-seven
recommendations.3 In September 2015, the United Nations (UN) set
an agenda for sustainable development with goals to be achieved by
2030.4 A report based on scientific research was produced to support
the recommendations.5 In this report seventeen sustainability issues
were identified; Table 4.1 lists these with their possible impacts.
Table 4.1 Sustainable development issues


 Description of issue                Sustainable development impact
 Environmental issues
 Agriculture, hunger and             •      Ecosystem conversion to agriculture
 food security                             or forest
 • Industrial agriculture            •      Fragmenting habitats
   vs subsistence farming            •      Introduction of non-native species
 • Use of pesticides and             •      Pollution of ecosystems through
   fertilizers                             farm chemical run-off
 • Use of water                      •      Genetic homogenization through
 • Intensive vs extensive                  monoculture
   agriculture                       •      Erosion, siltation, etc.
 • Deforestation
 Climate change                      •     Emission of greenhouse gas
 • Global warming
 Energy                              •  Pollution of ecosystems through
 • Renewable electricity               spills
 • Fossil fuel energy                • Pollution of ecosystems through
   systems                             extraction (e.g. effluent, noise, etc.)
 • Energy conservation               • Nuclear waste management
   practices
 • Nuclear energy
 Industrialization and               •  Destruction of ecosystems through
 infrastructure                        infrastructure construction
 • Socially efficient                • Facilitating access to fragile
    investments                        ecosystems, fragmenting habitats,
                                       pollution
                                     • Use of land for transport
                                       infrastructure
Natural resources          •  Pollution of ecosystems linked to
• Renewable resources        use of inputs in extraction (e.g.
                             effluent, noise, etc.)
                           • Over-mining, over-fishing
Oceans                     •  Destruction of habitats through
• Marine ecosystem           damaging fishing practices
• Micro plastics           • Potential over-fishing of target and
• Ocean acidification        by-catch species
• Ocean temperature        • Introduction of non-native species
                           • Pollution of marine and freshwater
                             ecosystems through effluent
                             discharge, excessive nutrient and
                             chemical loading (aquaculture, noise)
Sustainable                •  Waste disposal (e.g. electronic
consumption and              components, batteries, etc.)
production                 • Packaging
• Mode of consumption
• Food waste
Terrestrial biodiversity   •  Facilitating access to fragile
• Wetlands                   ecosystems, fragmenting habitats,
• Conservation of            pollution
  species                  • Pollution of forest ecosystems
• Genetically modified       through effluent and noise
  organisms                • Erosion and associated effects

Water and sanitation       •  Water pollution and over-use
• Sustainable water          destroying habitats and ecosystems
  infrastructure           • Pollution associated with transport
• Water pollution            use, including greenhouse gas and air
                             pollution emissions
Societal issues
Cities and human           •    Emission of greenhouse gases
                               (GHGs) due to transportation and
settlement                        energy production
• Urbanization and sub-
  urbanization
Economic growth and           •  Use of non-renewable resources
employment                    •  Impact on emission of GHGs and
• Large-scale                   attrition of resources due to
  production and                economic activities
  transportation systems      • Decoupling of growth and GHG
• Territorial expansion to      emission
  production                  • Promotion of community-based
                                systems of production
                              • Generalization of recycling
Education                     •    Unequal access to education
• Schooling                   •    Inclusion of sustainable development
  programmes                      issues in programmes

Gender equality               •    Role of women in the management
• Mode of consumption             of water and energy resources, food
                                  security
Governance                    •  Role of lobbies in distribution of
• Rule of law                   forestry, mining and construction
                                permits
                              • Fight against corruption
                              • Protective legislation and
                                enforcement favourable to
                                environmental protection
Health                        •    Effects of environmental hazards on
• Access to healthcare            health

Peaceful and inclusive        •    Accepted role of environmental local
societies                         and international NGOs
• Community
  participation in decision
  making
 •   Institutions
 •   Human rights
 Poverty eradication                •    Child poverty and child labour
 • Unbalanced
   development

Source: Data from CAIT Climate Data Explorer, 2015, Washington, DC: World Resources
Institute, http://cait.wri.org.



EXAMPLE 4.1 An introduction to issues of corporate social
responsibility – Shell in Nigeria

Shell’s oil exploration in Nigeria began in 1937 when Nigeria was still a
British colony. After Nigerian independence, Shell formed a joint
venture with the Nigerian government. Oil resource exploration and
exploitation took place, among other locations, in an area of southeast
Nigeria around the Niger Delta in which lived the Ogoni, a small ethnic
group of about half a million people. In 1990, the leaders of the Ogoni
created the Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People (MOSOP)
which demanded more benefits from the Nigerian government and also
compensation for the environmental damage created by Shell’s
operations. In 1993, several clashes between Nigerian security forces
led to MOSOP protests being brutally repressed, including the killing
of several protesters. Subsequently, nine leaders of MOSOP were
hanged after a trial by a military court. Shell was accused of
complicity despite repeated denials from the company. Shell pulled out
of Ogoniland and in 1997 revised its ‘Statement of General Business
Principles’, reaffirming its support for human rights. In 1998, Shell
produced its first social and environmental publication, Profits and
Principles.
  The Ogoni case has been a trigger for wider recognition of the
responsibility of a global firm with regards to environmental protection
and safeguarding human rights. Shell’s experience in Nigeria illustrates
the need for global corporations to consider the issues related to
sustainable development.
Source: Wheeler et al. (2001a, 2001b, 2001c).



   The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)6 were adopted by
all United Nations (UN) Member states in 2015. They are a universal
call for action to end poverty, protect the planet and improve the lives
and prospects of everyone, everywhere.7 The 17 Goals are part of
the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development – a fifteen-year
plan to achieve the goals. By 2021, progress had been made, but
action to meet the goals was not advancing at the speed or scale
necessary. Despite this, more people worldwide were living better
lives compared to the previous decade with better access to
healthcare, decent work and education than before.

Businesses and the SDGs

In the Paris Agreement on Climate Change in 2015, members
committed to work to limit global temperature rise to below the 2
degrees Celsius that is essential for the achievement of the SDGs.8
According to the UN and other international organizations, achievement
of these goals relies on joint effort from both the public and private
sectors. To this end, while the Trump administration took significant
steps to withdraw the US from the Paris Agreement, immediately after
his inauguration in January 2021, President Biden signed an executive
order to reverse the previous administration’s withdrawal and the Paris
Agreement came into force in the US on 19 February 2021.9
Businesses in Europe have also taken steps to influence climate
change policy when more than 150 business leaders, including those
of Microsoft, Google, IKEA, Deutsche Bank and EDF, signed an open
letter to urge the EU to set higher than planned climate goals for
2030,10 including a 55 per cent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions
by the end of the decade, which was agreed on at the end of 2020.11
  Sustainable Development Goals

  1   No poverty
  2   Zero hunger
  3   Good health and well-being
  4   Quality education
  5   Gender equality
  6   Clean water and sanitation
  7   Affordable and clean energy
  8   Decent work and economic growth
  9   Industry, innovation and infrastructure
  10 Reduced inequality
  11 Sustainable cities and communities
  12 Responsible consumption and production
  13 Climate action
  14 Life below water
  15 Life on land
  16 Peace and justice-strong institutions
  17 Partnerships to achieve the goals


   Companies have taken different approaches to playing their role in
sustainable development in terms of pursuing largely symbolic or
substantive sustainability efforts, even in the same industries and with
comparable size and resources. The apparel company H&M has been
accused of inflating its positive environmental impact, through
advertisement campaigns such as that for its ‘Conscious Collection’,
while masking considerable harm caused by its production
processes.12 This corporate behaviour is often referred to as
‘greenwashing’.13 There is increasing evidence on the negative effects
of ‘greenwashing’ in terms of companies’ perceived reputation and
integrity, which dampen consumer purchase intentions.14 On the other
hand, other companies in the same industry, like Patagonia, openly
advertise the environmental costs of their productions and actively
discourage their customers from supporting ‘fast fashion’.15 While the
evidence is still inconclusive in terms of corporate social responsibility
efforts and financial performance, including consumer behaviour, most
studies report a non-negative or positive effect16 and socially
responsible firms may expect greater effort and lower wage
requirements from their employees.17
   Some organizations go even further in driving change towards
achieving the SDGs by entering (competitive) collaborations with their
competitors or using novel organizational forms to tackle grand
societal challenges. The Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition
(EICC) is an initiative to create industry-wide standards on social,
environmental and ethical issues in the electronics industry supply
chain; founding members include IBM, Dell and HP. Such ‘co-opetitive’
efforts in the context of corporate sustainability are considered a
viable strategy to considerably improve industry-wide corporate social
performance.18 In terms of new organizational forms to support
sustainability, social enterprises, such as Fair Trade organizations and
microfinance institutions, combine logics from both for-profit and non-
profit businesses to create positive social impact in a financially
sustainable way.19 The creation of new legal entities20 to
accommodate these new organizational forms also supports the notion
that companies play a crucial role in driving worldwide efforts towards
the achievement of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
   All companies are concerned with sustainability but some industries
bear the largest responsibility in dealing with sustainable development.
Those are the extractive and energy industries (oil, mining, forestry),
biotechnology and agribusinesses (genetically modified organisms
(GMOs)), chemicals, pulp and paper. Multinational and global firms in
those sectors, and others, are constantly being challenged on the
grounds that they are contributing to the degradation of the
environment. The most common issues confronting multinational
corporations are:

•   Global warming and carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions;
•      Depletion of natural resources, effects of monocultures,
  deforestation and intensive agriculture;
• Waste disposal.

In order to contribute to sustainability, global firms must pay attention
to:

•   Control of suppliers;
•   Eco-friendly capital investments;
•   Green management of resources.

Globalization and environmental issues

Global warming and CO2 emissions

One of the most prominent environmental issues is the increasing
warming of the planet due to the emission of greenhouse gases
(GHGs) constituted mainly of CO2, methane, nitrous oxides and
fluorinated gases. Their ‘greenhouse effect’ is to trap heat within the
atmosphere, creating global warming which raises the average
temperature of the globe (Figure 4.2), increases sea levels and
creates climatic catastrophes and agricultural disruptions. In turn,
population migration may result, generating further potential impacts
and conflict. Global emissions of GHGs were 52 billion tons in 2019,21
70 per cent more than in 1990 (33 million tons) and seven times the
level of 1950 (7 million tons). China and industrialized countries are the
major producers of CO2. The energy sector plays the largest part
(Table 4.2), although it should be noted that CO2 emissions do have
natural as well as artificial/ industrial sources. Without proper controls,
the whole ecology of the planet may be disrupted. The long-term
effects of global warming are potentially dramatic in terms of human
health, natural disasters, farming and human settlement.




Figure 4.2 Temperatures worldwide: earth surface (land and oceans)
Source: NOAA National Centers for Environmental information, Climate at a Glance: Global
Time Series, published August 2021, retrieved on 17 August 2021 from
https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/cag/.

Table 4.2 Total world GHG emissions including land-use change and forestry (billion tons
equivalent CO2)


 Country                               2019                        %
 World                                 52.4                        100
 China                                 14.01                        26.7

 United States                         6.59                         12.6
 European Union                        4.34                         8.3

 India                                 3.72                         7.1
 Other OECD G20                     3.71                       7.1

 Russian Federation                 2.54                       4.8
 Japan                              1.36                       2.6

 South Korea                        1.24                       2.4
 Turkey                             1.08                       2.1

 Indonesia                          0.82                       1.6

 Canada                             0.79                       1.5
 Brazil                             0.77                       1.5

 South Africa                       0.72                       1.4
 Mexico                             0.71                       1.4

 Australia                          0.63                       1.2
 Argentina                          0.60                       1.1

 Saudi Arabia                       0.38                       0.7
 Others                             8.40                       16.0
                                     SECTORS
 Energy                             35.87                      68
 Agriculture                        6.47                       12

 International transport            1.36                       3
 Waste                              2.90                       6
 Others                             5.80                       11

Source: Authors’ own from PBL Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency, ‘Trends in
mondiale uitstoot van CO2 en alle broeikasgassen: 2020 rapport’,
https://www.pbl.nl/publicaties/trends-in-mondiale-uitstoot-van-co2-en-alle-broeikasgassen-
2020-rapport(accessed 15 May 2021).

   There is political controversy on the exact role that industries play in
this phenomenon but the magnitude of the potential consequences is
such that in 1992, following a UN assessment of climatic change
published in 1990, 154 nations signed the UN Framework Convention
on Climate Change in Rio de Janeiro, inciting members to adopt
policies to reverse the trend. This led to the Tokyo Protocol of 1997,
which provided binding commitments from industrialized countries to
reduce their yearly emission of GHGs by 5 per cent between 2008
and 2020.22 Since 1995, annual Conference of the Parties (COP)
meetings have taken place. In 2009, there were high hopes for the
Copenhagen meeting (COP15), where ambitious goals were
proposed, but unfortunately no agreement could be found. At the
meeting in Paris in 2015 (COP21), 195 governments agreed in
principle to limit gas emissions so that the global temperature rise
would be limited to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. As
a consequence of the ratification of the treaty by many industrialized
countries, companies in those countries are committed to implement
reduction of CO2 emissions.
   One initiative conducive to the reduction of CO2 is carbon trading
through regulated market mechanisms. The most utilized market
mechanisms are the cap-and-trade schemes, under which a regulatory
body sets a limit (the cap) on the amount of CO2 that companies are
allowed to emit. Companies that emit more than their cap have to
purchase credits from a company that has kept below the cap.
Carbon credits can be traded in exchanges such as the European
Union Emission Trading System (EU ETS) launched in 200523 (see
Insert 4.1).
Figure 4.3 Total world GHG emissions
Source: GitHub, https://github.com/owid/co2-data (downloaded 15 May 2021).



   Insert 4.1 The EU Emissions Trading Scheme
   (EU ETS)
   The EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS)24 is a cap-and-
   trade system in which participation is mandatory for businesses in
   the following sectors: energy production (power and heat
   generation), energy-intensive industries including oil refineries,
   steel works and production of iron, aluminium, metals, cement,
   lime, glass, ceramics, pulp, paper, cardboard, acids and bulk
   organic chemicals and aviation. Under the scheme individual
   industrial sites are granted an allowance (the EUA allowance)
   that gives the right to emit a certain level of CO2. Companies that
   emit below the level of their allowance can sell their excess
   allowance at a market price (as shown in Figure 4.4). Companies
   that emit more than their allowance can buy an extra allowance
   on the market. Allowances are granted for each individual
   plant via a National Allocation Plan in each EU member state
  and approved by the Commission. It is mandatory for companies
  producing CO2, NO2 and perfluorocarbon (PFC) emissions to
  participate in the scheme. In 2020, the EU ETS market for CHG
  global emission of the twenty-eight European countries was
  valued at 201 billion euros for a volume of 8 billion tons with an
  average       price     of   25     €/T     (Source:      Refinitiv,
  https://www.refinitiv.com/content/dam/marketing/en_us/document
  s/reports/global-carbon-market-emission-trading-system-review-
  2019.pdf ).




  Figure 4.4 Variation in spot prices for CO2
  Source: European Commission,
  https://ec.europa.eu/clima/sites/default/files/news/docs/com_2020_740_en.pdf




Depletion of natural resources

Humanity currently needs the regenerative capacity of 1.5 earths to
provide the ecological goods and services we use each year. This is
because we ‘cut trees faster than they mature, harvest more fish than
the oceans can replenish, and emit more carbon […] than the forests
and oceans can absorb’. 25 Table 4.3 shows some examples of the
depletion of natural resources.
Table 4.3 Depletion of natural resources


 Resource             Signs of depletion
 Living               The 2020 global LPI (Living Planet Index) shows an
 species              average 68 per cent decline in living species
                      populations between 1970 and 2016.*

 Fish                 ‘Around 33% of all freshwater fish are threatened
                      with extinction. Since 1970, the number of fishes that
                      weigh over 66lbs—have declined by 94% and
                      migratory freshwater fish by 76% .’**
 Water                Over 2 billion people already live in areas subject to
                      water stress. Some 3.4 billion people, 45 per cent of
                      the global population, lack access to safely managed
                      sanitation facilities. At the current rate, there will be
                      a 40 per cent gap between global water supply and
                      demand by 2030.***

 Deforestation Between 2015 and 2020, 10 million hectares of
               forest were converted to other uses every year
               (approximately the size of Iceland per year).****

Sources: * WWF 202126 ; ** WWF 202127 ; *** UNESCO (2021)28 ; **** UNEP 202129


Waste production and disposal

According to UNEP (UN Environment Programme), 4 billion tons of
municipal and industrial waste are produced every year. The global
issues related to waste production and disposals are twofold:

1    It is the rich industrialized countries that are the major producers
    of waste that contains or exposes a lot of hazardous materials
    (municipal, construction material, dismantled electronics and
  computers, vessels, machinery, nuclear power residue), due to
  their high rate of consumption and lifestyles.
2 The disposal of this waste is very often delegated to the
  developing world. Because of their lack of financial resources and
  their hunger for international currencies, many developing countries
  are willing to accept waste that is not tolerated in the developed
  world.

Global firms and environmental issues

Multinational firms are often accused of being unresponsive or not
sufficiently active on sustainable development issues regarding the
environment30 (see Mini-case 4.1 below).




  MINI-CASE 4.1

  Shell and Cosan

  In June 2011, Royal Dutch Shell (usually known as Shell) and
  Cosan announced the start of operations at Raízen, a 50/50 joint
  venture to produce ethanol, sugar and electricity from sugar cane,
  as well as to distribute and market fuel. The Raízen operation
  started with 40,000 employees, and is among the five largest
  companies by revenue in Brazil, with a market value estimated at
  $12 billion, and producing and selling over 2 billion litres of ethanol
  a year. Shell indicates that turning sugar cane into ethanol offers
  a number of environmental benefits over other biofuel production
  processes. As it grows, sugar cane generally absorbs CO2 at a
  greater rate than other biofuel crops such as soy.
    In a press release, Shell stated: ‘Ethanol made from Brazilian
  sugar cane produces around 70% less CO2 than petrol and by-
  products from turning
   sugar cane into ethanol are recycled as organic fertiliser. Plant
waste, called bagasse, is burned to produce power for the
processing mills and surplus energy is supplied to the national
grid.’
   But critics of ethanol are also pinpointing its harmful effects on
the environment and society. According to the Transnational
Institute:
    sugarcane is grown as a monocrop, predomi-nantly in southern and central Brazil as
    well as in parts of Asia and Africa. It relies on heavy quantities of inputs, particularly
    fertilizer. Harvesting is often done by hand, and working conditions are notoriously
    harsh. A number of studies in Brazil have shown that demand for land for sugarcane
    is leading to the conversion of grasslands and wooded savannah for crops, releasing
    stored carbon dioxide, and displacing previous users like cattle farmers they have no
    financial choice but to sell up. Sugar plantations are displacing small farms, food
    crops and subsistence food systems – leading to food shortages and price rises.31

who move into tropical forests. Sugarcane also has devastating
effects on biodiversity – with the Cerrado savannah of Central
Brazil, where sugarcane is grown, being one of the world’s most
biodiverse and also most threatened habitats. Sugarcane
expansion is also affecting Brazil’s Atlantic Forest, and indirectly
the Amazon, as cattle farmers move into the forest in the search
for new pasture.

Sugarcane expansion may lead to land conflicts, as rural
communities are forced off land to make way for the plantations.
Small-scale farming has become unviable in the plantation areas
and many small farmers feel

Questions:

1     Imagine you are a socially responsible Shell shareholder.
      What is your view on the issue?
2      Shell has been criticized over environmental concerns and
      human rights in Africa, Europe and the USA. What can an
      energy company do to answer such criticisms?
Control of suppliers

Sustainable development does not stop at a firm’s own national
boundaries. Outsourcing across the world is a key feature of global
firms and it is the responsibility of such firms to ensure that their
foreign suppliers are engaged in sustainable development. This is
particularly true in countries that are less demanding in terms of
environmental and social protection. Often known as green
purchasing, environmental preferable purchasing (EPP) consists of
the selection and acquisition of products and services that minimize
negative environmental impacts over their life cycle (through energy
and water conservation, reduction of waste and pollutants, use of
recycled materials, use of energy from renewable resources, use of
alternatives to hazardous chemicals or components). It also demands
that suppliers pursue human resource practices that prohibit the use of
forced labour, child labour and workplace discrimination.
   Green purchasing is adding sustainable issues to the classical
price/performance criteria used in the evaluation of suppliers. It
requires that the buyer audits and controls the fulfilment of these
criteria, and it also requires suppliers to have appropriate training in
the adoption of good practice in sustainable development.32

Eco-friendly capital investments

The IMF defines socially responsible investment as ‘the incorporation
of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) principles into
business decisions, economic development, and investment
strategies’33 and it is estimated that by 2020, these investments
reached $49.1 trillion in total assets.34
   Figure 4.5 represents all the ecological factors that need to be
taken into consideration when planning an industrial investment.
Figure 4.5 Ecological investment components

  In the developing countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America,
careful attention has to be given to:

    a    potential disruption in the ecosystem: deforestation, water
      requirements;
    b potential disruption in the social and cultural environment;
    c     the appropriateness of the technology transfer with regard to
        the existing environment and capabilities.

Green management of resources
Agribusiness industries, forestry and pulp and paper, in particular,
need to engage with deforestation and land depletion issues. The main
sustainability problems associated with these industries are:

•   soil erosion due to intensive agriculture;
•   loss of rainforest due to deforestation;
•   reduction of biodiversity;
•   depletion of water resources;
•   disruption of traditional farming.
   However, it was estimated by the Food and Agriculture Organization
in 2009 that, due to population growth, global agriculture production
would need to increase by at least 70 per cent by 2050.35 Global
firms engaged in agribusiness need to adopt practices that preserve
bio-capacity.
   Examples of such practices are:

•    reforestation;
•      adoption of agricultural techniques that reduce soil erosion and
    preserve water quality such as strip cropping, planting trees on
    croplands and adoption of agro-forestry systems. 36

In addition to the measures mentioned earlier, firms engaged in
environmentally problematic industries can implement a series of
industry-specific eco-efficient actions. According to Holliday et al. and
Lehni,37 eco-efficiency can be improved in seven ways:

•   reduction in material intensity
•   reduction in energy intensity
•   reduction in waste dispersion
•   enhancement of recyclability
•   maximum use of renewables
•   extension of product durability
•   increase of service intensity.

Globalization and societal issues
Societal issues encompass all activities that are relevant to the
harmonious development of human societies. In the process of their
globalization, firms may be involved directly or indirectly in practices
that are disrupting societal well-being. Those practices can be
classified in three categories:

•   corruption and bribery
•   human dignity
•   financial malpractice.

The remainder of this section will be devoted to one of the most
predominant and worrying ethical issues in global business: the
practice and effects of corruption and bribery.

Corruption and bribery

According to the OECD, ‘estimates show that the cost of corruption
equals more than 5% of global GDP (US$ 2.6 trillion) with over US$ 1
trillion paid in bribes each year’.38 Overall, corruption distorts market
mechanisms, allocates resources to non-optimal projects and
increases the cost of doing business by 10 per cent. Corruption is
therefore considered to be one of the main global business issues.
    Corruption can be simply defined as ‘the abuse of entrusted power
for private gain’.39 This definition applies to public officials as well as
employees of private companies who receive personal gain (a bribe)
in the form of cash or other benefit (such as a car, family travel or the
employment of a relative) and, in return, give a preferential advantage
to the donor. Transparency International (TI) regularly publishes one
index: the Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI) – see p. 132 for more
about TI. The CPI is a score that relates the perceptions of corruption
in the public sector in different countries as seen by businesses,
academics and risk analysts. It represents a compilation of different
surveys. Transparency International used to publish the Bribe Paying
Index (BPI) that ranked the leading exporting countries in terms of the
degree to which their companies are perceived to be paying bribes
abroad. This BPI has not been published since 2011 but is reported in
Table 4.4.
Table 4.4 Corruption indices including rankings
Source: Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index 2020.

  Table 4.4 gives the 2020 CPI and the BPI for 2011.
  The chairperson of Transparency International, in the brochure
presenting the 2020 index, declared that ‘COVID-19 is not just a
health and economic crisis. It’s a corruption crisis. And one that we’re
currently failing to manage.’40
  In 2015, their statement was: ‘The 2015 Corruption Perceptions
Index clearly shows that corruption remains a blight around the world.
But 2015 was also a year when people again took to the streets to
protest corruption.’41
   The industries in which corruption is most acute are: public works
contracts and construction, arms and defence, power (including
petroleum and energy), mining, telecoms, aerospace and banking.
Although the practice of corruption is not limited to global enterprises,
their visibility and power give them particular responsibility to, as well
as a greater impact on, the societies in which they operate. Corruption
tends to be more prevalent in developing countries. As Figure 4.6
shows, there is a positive correlation between GDP per capita and the
CPI. Countries that formerly had a planned economy score lower on
the scale.




Figure 4.6 Corruption and development
Sources: Authors’ own construction. Data from Transparency International Corruption
Perceptions Index 2020 and World Bank Development Indicators,
https://datatopics.worldbank.org/world-development-indicators/.

   There is vigorous debate about the exact limits of corruption, its
origin, its real effects and its practice.

When gifts become bribes, where does corruption start?
It is standard practice in some countries to offer gifts as recognition of
friendship and relationships.42 The dividing line between a bribe and a
gift is frequently ambiguous, but the general rule would be to consider
as a gift any present offered openly whose content can be disclosed
in the person’s professional and social environment. Gifts can also be
offered to communities (school sponsorship, donation to communities,
etc.), the rule still being that it be openly offered. Beyond the frontiers
of transparency, the land of bribery begins.
   In the USA the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 that exposes
American executives to criminal sanctions strictly forbids bribery. Such
legislation does not exist in other countries, although the Convention on
Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business
Transactions, adopted by the OECD on 21 November 1997, has been
ratified by thirty-four OECD countries and seven non-OECD members.
This convention prohibits the use of bribes, states that criminal
sanctions should be applied to the persons engaged in bribery and
recommends that tax deductibility of bribes not be permitted.43 The
OECD Convention, however, has a lower dissuasive power than the
American Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.

Causes and effects of corruption

The causes of corruption are diverse,44 and belong to five main
categories:

1        Administrative resource allocation: the substitution of
  transparent market mechanisms by administrative authorization and
  distribution. Price controls, multiple exchange rates, subsidies and
  administrative authorizations granted without competitive bidding
  are mechanisms that induce corruption.
2    Lack of institutional checks and balances and information:
  absent or powerless public audit, single source of power without
  right of appeal, cowed legal system and media.
3       Insufficient funding of public services: leading to low
  remuneration of public officials relative to private sector, lack of
   proper financing of political parties or under-supply of public goods
   for hospitals, transport and schools.
4     Social and cultural factors: such as a societal division along
   ethnic and linguistic lines leading to nepotism.
5      Natural resources: abundant natural resources are also an
   incentive for bribery.45
  Several studies converge to demonstrate the adverse effects of
corruption on the economy.46 The effects are both direct and indirect.

Direct effects

We can list three in particular:

a    It discourages domestic and foreign indirect investment (FDI)
  because of the additional cost burden on projects: it amounts to
  another hidden tax. In 1998, it was estimated that if India could
  reduce its corruption level to that of Singapore, the effect on
  foreign investment would be the same as reducing the corporate
  tax rate by 22 per cent.47 Corruption thus hampers economic
  growth. In 2018, the Secretary-General of the United Nations
  indicated that the global cost of corruption was at least 5 per cent
  of world GDP.48
b It skews public capital expenditure in favour of new equipment as
  opposed to maintenance and operational expenditure. It also
  discriminates against educational and health expenditure that is
  less amenable to bribery.
c It reduces the productivity of public investments and reduces the
  collection of taxes.

Indirect effects

The most common are:

a   Reduction in work productivity as a result of demotivation.
b    Dislocation of social fabric.
c   Loss of integrity inside the bribe-giving companies: employees
  may feel authorized to benefit from corrupt practices for
  themselves.
d     Corruption money is often linked to criminal and terrorist
  activities.

   Although some economists have argued that corruption facilitates
transactions in inefficient markets and therefore is a form of ‘grease,
speeding the wheels of commerce’,49 the negative effects are
overwhelmingly dominant.

The practice of corruption and the role of global companies

Many companies, despite the damaging economic and social effects,
engage in bribery to obtain contracts. Companies coming from
countries that are themselves ‘immune’ from corrupt practices bribe
officials or executives from other countries. This paradoxical
behaviour50 is attributed to competitive necessities (‘If I don’t my
competitor will, and my shareholders and employees will lose out’) as
well as cultural justifications (see Mini-case 4.2). Performance and
rewards systems that focus entirely on economic achievements also
tempt local managers to engage in corrupt practices in order to ‘make
the figures’, even in corporations that officially assert a global code of
ethics.




    MINI-CASE 4.2

    Jack Cumberland

    Jack Cumberland was the Managing Director of IndoMedia, a
    leading advertising agency in [the fictional Southeast-Asian
country] Indoland. IndoMedia was formed as a joint venture
between EuroMedia from the UK and a local entrepreneur. Jack,
born in Scotland in 1975, joined Procter & Gamble as a junior
brand manager after graduating from London University Business
School in 1998. Six years later he was recruited by EuroMedia.
He was attached to a client group in London for five years, then
moved to Spain for four years and finally was named Managing
Director of IndoMedia.
   IndoMedia had a good reputation in Indoland as a very creative
agency that was well connected to the media. It also had the
reputation of being reliable in a country where media charges
could be discounted by up to 60 per cent from the ‘official’ rate.
Most agencies charged the ‘official’ rate to their clients and
pocketed the discount for themselves. IndoMedia charged only a
20 per cent commission on top of the discounted rate, giving them
a competitive advantage over other agencies despite the fact that
its artwork charge was higher. For printing jobs, quotations were
requested from at least three competitors in order to obtain the
best price.
   A few months after his appointment, Jack was approached by
Eddy, a representative of a big
   printing company in Indoland. Eddy was very upset because he
saw the volume of his business with IndoMedia declining although
his work was of the highest price/quality ratio. He mentioned that
IndoMedia’s manager in charge of buying print jobs, Omar, was
asking that the quotation include ‘not only the usual 10 per cent,
but then it was 15 per cent and recently 25 per cent’ to be paid
as soon as the printer received the money from the agency.
   Jack asked Eddy if he was ready to repeat his allegations in
front of Omar. The answer was immediate: ‘No way, It would kill
my business’, Eddy replied, and walked away.
   Later Jack talked to Andreas, the Finance Director, a man of
experience and wisdom. Jack became angrier as he was talking.
But Andreas was smiling and finally, when Jack stopped talking,
Andreas asked him: ‘Haven’t you realized that you work in
Indoland?’
  Questions:

  1    What options does Jack have in this situation?
  2    What do you think that he should do?
  Source: Adapted from Schütte (1986).




   As a result, many global firms implicitly put their managers in a
conflictual position.51 The distribution of bribes is often delegated to a
third party such as an agent or a joint venture partner.
   In the late 1990s, some firms, as well as private and public
international institutions, created platforms to fight against corruption
and introduce practical codes of conduct within global firms. In
addition to the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign
Public Officials in International Business Transactions, and the US
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act mentioned earlier, the most prominent
private, non-governmental organization is Transparency International,
whose corruption and bribery indices we covered on p. 127.52
   Transparency International (TI) is an international NGO based in
London with national chapters in seventy-seven countries. Its stated
mission is ‘to curb corruption by mobilising a global coalition to
promote and strengthen international and national integrity systems’.
TI’s activities consist of distributing information about corrupt practices
and ways to fight against them and it has also launched an annual
awards programme to honour individuals and organizations around the
globe that are making a difference in ending corruption. The goal is to
give greater recognition to the efforts of journalists, civil society
workers, activists, government and corporate whistleblowers who
work to investigate and unmask corruption, often at great personal
risk. The Integrity Awards also seek to encourage those whose
example provides leadership in the global anti-corruption effort. TI
publishes a Global Corruption Report as well as the CPI and BPI. It
gives free access to a Corruption On-Line Research and Information
System and its national chapters implement a large variety of activities
to inform about and fight against corruption. TI has published thirty-
two lessons that constitute a source of inspiration and guide for
action.53 Table 4.5 gives five examples of corruption involving
companies from countries that have a high score on the CPI index and
Table 4.6 gives a checklist of the most common measures that
governments and companies can take to fight corruption.
Table 4.5 Five corruption cases from ‘clean’ countries


 Corporations                                 Case              Countries
 involved                                                       involved
 (country of
 origin)
 Airbus                 In February 2020, the European          Taiwan
 (France)               manufacturer of civilian and military   Malaysia
                        aircraft agreed to pay nearly $4        Indonesia
                        billion in combined penalties to the    Sri Lanka
                        US, France and UK to resolve            Ghana
                        foreign bribery charges.
 Semlex                 Semlex, a Belgian company that          Democratic
 (Belgium)              manufactures passports, licences        Republic of
                        and other biometric documents, is       Congo
                        currently embroiled in a long-running   Madagascar
                        corruption and money-laundering         Kyrgyzstan
                        investigation involving several         Ivory Coast
                        countries in Africa, including DRC
                        and Madagascar. The company is
                        also linked to investigations in
                        Kyrgyzstan and stands accused of
                        arming the Côte d’Ivoire civil war in
                        2010.
 Gunvor                 In 2019, a commodities trading          Cyprus
 (Switzerland)          company was condemned by Swiss          Ivory Coast
                        authorities to pay approximately
                        $96.7 million for failing to put
                        adequate measures in place to
                        prevent the bribery of foreign
                        government officials in Cote d’Ivoire
                        and the Republic of Congo in
                        exchange for lucrative oil deals.
 Bombardier             One of the world’s leading plane and Azerbaijan
 (Canada)               train manufacturers based in Canada Indonesia
                        was under investigation in 2020 for
                        foreign bribery in Indonesia, only a
                        few years after similar charges of
                        foreign bribery were brought against
                        the Swedish branch of the company
                        in Azerbaijan.
 San Faustin  San Faustin, a financial holding       Argentina
 (Luxembourg) company in Brazil, for foreign bribery Italy Brazil
              and money laundering.

Source: Transparency International(2020),
https://images.transparencycdn.org/images/CPI2020_Report_EN_0802-WEB-1_2021-02-08-
103053.pdf (accessed 15 May 2021).

Table 4.6 A checklist of anti-corruption measures


 Public sector

  Transparency
 • Provide an adequate degree of transparency in the entire
    procurement cycle in order to promote fair and equitable
    treatment for potential suppliers.
 • Maximize transparency in competitive tendering and take
    precautionary measures to enhance integrity, in particular for
    exceptions to competitive tendering.

  Good management
•  Ensure that public funds are used in public procurement
  according to the purposes intended.
• Ensure that procurement officials meet high professional
  standards of knowledge, skills and integrity.

 Prevention of misconduct, compliance and monitoring
• Put mechanisms in place to prevent risks to integrity in public
   procurement.
• Encourage close cooperation between government and the
   private sector in order to maintain high standards of integrity,
   particularly in contract management.
• Provide specific mechanisms to monitor public procurement as
   well as to detect misconduct, and apply sanctions accordingly.

 Accountability and control
• Establish a clear chain of responsibility together with effective
  control mechanisms.
• Handle complaints from potential suppliers in a fair and timely
  manner.
• Empower civil society organizations, media and the wider public
  to scrutinize public procurement.
Private sector
•  Strong, explicit and visible support and commitment from senior
  management to the company’s internal controls, ethics and
  compliance programmes or measures for preventing and
  detecting foreign bribery.
• A clearly articulated and visible corporate policy prohibiting
  foreign bribery.
• Compliance with this prohibition and the related internal controls,
  ethics and compliance programmes is the duty of individuals at all
  levels of the company.
• Oversight of ethics and compliance programmes or measures
  regarding foreign bribery.
 •    Ethics and compliance programmes designed to prevent and
     detect foreign bribery, applicable to all directors, officers and
     employees, including subsidiaries, and to third parties such as
     agents and other intermediaries, consultants, representatives,
     distributors, contractors and suppliers, consortia, and joint
     venture partners.
 Private sector
 •    A system of financial and accounting procedures, including a
     system of internal controls, reasonably designed to ensure that
     accounts cannot be used for the purpose of foreign bribery or
     hiding such bribery.
 •    Ensure periodic communication and documented training for all
     levels of the company on measures regarding foreign bribery.
 •    Appropriate measures to encourage and provide positive support
     for the observance of ethics.
 •    Appropriate disciplinary procedures to address, among other
     things, violations, at all levels of the company, of laws against
     foreign bribery, and the company’s ethics and compliance
     programme or measures regarding foreign bribery.
 •    Effective measures for: a) providing guidance and advice to
     directors, officers, employees and, where appropriate, business
     partners on complying with the company’s ethics and compliance
     programmes; b) the protection of employees willing to report
     breaches of the law or professional standards or ethics occurring
     within the company, and undertaking appropriate action in
     response to such reports.
 •    Periodic reviews of the ethics and compliance programmes and
     improvements to their effectiveness in preventing and detecting
     foreign bribery.

Sources: Public sector – OECD (2008); Private sector – OECD (2009).


Other anti-corruption initiatives
Other organizations have issued guidelines and regulations to prevent
corrupt practices:

•    The UN General Assembly in 1996 adopted a Declaration against
    Corruption and Bribery.
•     The International Chambers of Commerce in 1977 issued the
    Rules of Conduct on Bribery.
•  The World Bank in 1995 issued procurement guidelines in order to
  prevent corruption in projects financed by the Bank.
• The Council of Europe in 1994 created a Multidisciplinary Group on
  Corruption. In 1997 it issued the Guiding Principles for the Fight
  against Corruption and in 1999 a Criminal Law Convention on
  Corruption.
•     The Caux Round Table, founded in 1986, is a network of senior
    business leaders from both the industrialized and the developing
    nations that recognize that business must take a leadership role in
    developing a more fair, free and transparent society, leading to
    greater world prosperity and sustainability of resources.

Despite all these efforts, there is still a long way to go before bribery
disappears, but global firms and global executives are under
increasing public scrutiny and the most progressive firms have made
considerable progress in the implementation of ethical behaviour.

Human dignity

Global executives are often confronted with the issue of procuring
components, materials or services in countries that do not respect
labour practices that are illegal in the developed world, though are
sometimes considered normal. The most significant are the utilization
of school-aged children as workers, unacceptable working hours and
working conditions, forced labour, the exploitation of legal and illegal
immigrants and the obstruction or elimination of trade unions. Other
issues are linked to the activities of global companies in countries
where human rights are not protected and abuses occur, such as
forced labour, arbitrary detention of trade unionists and political
opponents and repression against ethnic or religious minorities. In
such cases multinational companies stand accused of complicity with
the government or at least of indirectly benefitting from those
practices.

Child labour

Child labour has become a globalized issue and the one that provokes
a typical ethical dilemma. In a thought-provoking article, Martha
Nichols (1993) explained the dilemma of choosing between respecting
a code of ethics and cancelling an order to a supplier employing young
children, and therefore accepting the consequences of depriving their
families of much-needed income and putting the children back on the
street, or accepting the order knowing that children are working to
fulfil it.54 According to UNICEF, ‘about 168 million children aged 5 to 17
are engaged in child labor accounting for almost 11 per cent of all
children’.55 According to the International Labour Organization (ILO) in
2017 ‘out of the 168 million children worldwide that are engaged in
child labour, 85 million at least, are in hazardous work’,56 although a
steady decline of those numbers has been observed since 2000.
Around 70 per cent of children work in agriculture and many work in
dangerous conditions (mines, working with chemicals and pesticides
or dangerous machinery). Girls are found to be exploited as household
help. They are everywhere but invisible, toiling as domestic servants in
homes, labouring behind the walls of workshops, hidden from view in
plantations. Quoting UNICEF again: ‘Some of them are trafficked (1.2
million), forced into debt bondage or other forms of slavery (5.7
million), into prostitution and pornography (1.8 million), into
participating in armed conflict (0.3 million) or other illicit activities (0.6
million).’57 The main domain in which multinational companies can be
indirectly involved in child labour is in procurement from companies
that use children as a labour force. Mass retailing companies with their
billion dollar purchases of goods from the developing world are often
confronted with this issue. In a 2018 report the US Department of
Labors (ILAB) provided a list of countries and the respective
commodities that are using child labour, as well as the list of the
involved commodities.58 Global firms are not generally involved directly
in child labour in their production centres but indirectly through
subcontractors or suppliers. Neither UNICEF nor the Department of
Labor publish a list of such firms but a certain number of claims by
NGOs such as Amnesty International or Human Rights Watch have
mentioned some global firms whose suppliers use child labour, mainly
in the three sectors mentioned earlier. Most of the shamed firms have
taken measures to modify their sourcing process but the tracking of
the long chain of supply makes the exercise difficult.


EXAMPLE 4.2 Child labour and the global firm

Soccer balls (Sialkot and Reebok)

By the mid-1990s, Sialkot, located in the Punjab province of Pakistan,
was the centre for the production of customized, high-quality sporting
goods and surgical equipment: 25,000 workers were involved in these
activities. The production and export of 35 million soccer balls
accounted for $45 million in 1995. Since the stitching of soccer balls is
labour-intensive, children were used to perform this task. In Pakistan,
it was estimated that 3.6 million children were employed as labourers;
one-third earning wages, the remaining children being engaged as
family helpers for agricultural tasks.
   In the mid-1990s, child labour cases were brought to public notice
via television reports and news maga-zines, and this drew attention to
soccer ball production. Reebok, a leading sporting goods global firm,
implemented its own policy in order to abolish child labour. Reebok’s
policy was 1) to buy finished goods from a child labour-free factory so
stitching was taken out of the home; 2) to set up a monitoring
programme; and 3) to start an educational programme. David
Husselbee, Programme Director of Save the Children Fund’s UK
office, came to Sialkot and facilitated dialogue between the industry
and the ILO. This resulted in the Sialkot Partnership to End Child
Labour, which led to an agreement with the Sporting Goods
Manufacturers’ Association in Atlanta in 1997. The Atlanta Agreement
stated that:

•     Stitching centres were to be established which would bring the
    work out of households
•    Workers would be systematically registered in order to check their
    age
•    Alternative educational programmes would be created for children
•       Rewards, warnings and penalties were set up to encourage
    vendors not to use child labour
•    Members of the World Federation of Sporting Goods would favour
    vendors that did not use child labour.

   The programme was a success from the point of view of child
labour in the soccer ball industry, but it had some indirect negative
effects. For example, by taking the work out of the household, it also
prevented Punjabi women for doing these jobs because they could not
work in the factory for religious reasons. Furthermore, other industries
were still employing children and so some of the children who left
stitching moved to more hazardous or arduous work, such as carpet-
making or in brickworks.
Source: Crawford et al. (1999).



Human rights

With regard to human rights, global corporations are often confronted
with their direct or indirect complicity in all sorts of abuses. This
happens when global firms operate in countries whose political
regimes use methods of enforcement that do not respect the
principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) as
adopted by the United Nations. These prohibitions include arbitrary
detention, execution of political dissidents, non-respect of legal
procedures for trials of opponents, deportation of population, use of
military force to quell civilian unrest, rape or torture by security forces
or by factions in civil wars and so on. Global firms can be involved
directly, when human rights abuses are committed to protect their
operations, or indirectly, when their activities contribute to maintaining
political regimes involved in human rights abuse. Insert 4.2 gives an
example of global firms being criticized for association with human
rights abuses.


  Insert 4.2 Global firms and human rights
  Oil companies in Myanmar

  Unocal and its partner, Total of France, are building a natural gas
  pipeline (the Yadana project) from the Andaman Sea through the
  rainforests of southern Myanmar into Thailand. This represents
  the country’s largest foreign investment. The pipeline has become
  the target of intense lobbying by international human rights
  groups. Groups who oppose Unocal’s investment in Myanmar
  filed lawsuits against Unocal in the USA and Total in France in
  order to link this investment to forced labour and human right
  abuses committed by the Myanmar military. Both Unocal and
  Total settled the case by compensating people who were
  subjected to forced labour by the military without admitting any
  culpability.
  Source: Hennebel (2006).




In 2000, Pierre Sane, the then General Secretary of Amnesty
International, pinpointed five reasons why business should care about
human rights.
 1 The moral argument:

 We do not need to convince managers and boardrooms that the amputation of children’s
 limbs in Sierra Leone in order to terrorize a population and win a war is wrong, or that the
 gang rape of women by Serb soldiers in Kosovo is evil, or that the killing of civilians in East
 Timor or Chechnya is to be condemned. These acts are wrong, invidious. They have been
 prohibited internationally.
 2 The legitimacy argument:

 Human rights have been codified in treaties ratified by governments. People around the
 world are strug-gling to hold their governments accountable for the implementation of
 international law.

 3 The self-interest argument:

 I believe it is in the interest of business to see human rights protected. The rule of law
 protects investments by guaranteeing political stability. An educated and healthy population
 increases economic productivity. A company tarnished by controversies around human
 rights violations can see its reputation destroyed and its profitability threatened.

 4 The responsibility argument:

 Companies, and more specifically, multinational corporations, have secured for
 themselves freedoms to operate which have given them enormous power to affect the
 lives of people, but with power comes responsibility.

 5 The universal argument:

 The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) calls upon all organs of society to
 protect and promote human rights. The ILO conventions protect the rights of the workers.
 Other conventions place direct responsibility on companies to act in accordance with
 international human rights law.59

Amnesty International proposes a checklist of conduct principles for
global firms to adopt (see Insert 4.3).


  Insert 4.3 Human rights principles for
  companies: a checklist
  Non-discrimination

  Businesses are required not to discriminate on grounds unrelated
  to the job (for example, race, colour, sex, language, religion or
  political opinion) but to promote equal opportunities.

  Protection of civilians and laws of war

  Businesses will have to ensure that they do not aid or abet human
  rights violations, nor benefit from war crimes such as plunder and
pillage, crimes against humanity, genocide, torture, forced labour,
hostage-taking or other violations of international human rights or
humanitarian law.

Use of security forces

Businesses using security forces should establish policies to:
ensure that security-related employees or contractors are not
known human rights violators; provide adequate training in human
rights procedures to security forces; and incorporate human
rights obligations in security contracts.

Workers’ rights

The UN Norms and Commentary reiterate, on the one hand, the
prohibitions against the use of forced or compulsory labour, and
against exploitation of children. On the other hand, businesses
should follow mandates for safe and healthy working conditions,
remuneration that ensures an adequate standard of living,
freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining.

Corruption, consumer protection and human rights

Businesses should not engage in corruption of governmental
officials and should use fair and honest business practices
according to consumer protection laws and standards; this
includes a duty to refrain from producing or marketing harmful or
even potentially harmful products.

Economic, social and cultural rights

Businesses should respect all human rights, and contribute to
their realization. They should do what they can ‘within their
respective spheres of activity and influence’ to uphold the rights to
adequate food, drinking water, the highest attainable standard of
physical and mental health, housing and education. They also
forthrightly support the right to development and the rights of
indigenous peoples.

Human rights and the environment

Businesses are obliged to comply with international and national
laws, policies and regulations on preserving the environment. This
includes complying with the precautionary principle and
conducting their activities so as to contribute to the wider goal of
sustainable development.

Indigenous peoples’ rights

Companies should respect the principle of free, prior and
informed consent of communities to be affected by development
projects.

As a consequence it is recommend that companies and
business associations should:

•   Adopt, disseminate and implement a code of conduct which
  complies with the UN Human Rights Norms for Business.
• Prepare and implement operational guidelines to apply the UN
  Human Rights Norms for Business.
• Apply the UN Human Rights Norms for Business in contracts
  and other dealings with contractors, sub-contractors and any
  other associates.
•     Organize training seminars and workshops for staff and
  facilitate similar events with associates and within industry
  associations to raise awareness of the UN Human Rights
  Norms for Business.
Source: Amnesty International (2004) (reproduced with permission).
Financial malpractice

Financial malpractice in a global context refers to the ability of global
corporations to use their multinational presence to deprive states of
their normal share of taxes through tax evasion. It also concerns their
ability to interfere in local politics through the sponsoring of ‘friendly’
political parties or movements, and in some cases even helping
provoke the overthrow of ‘unhelpful’ governments.

Tax evasion
Tax evasion is the practice of artificially shifting profits from high-
taxation countries to low-taxation countries (whereby taxable income is
generated in the former but transferred for reporting and taxation
purposes to a local subsidiary in the latter). In the USA, it is estimated
that hundreds of billions of dollars are lost in tax revenues.60 This can
be achieved by inflated interest on loans provided to a local subsidiary
or via inflated transfer pricing. Another method is to harbour profits in
tax havens in order to avoid paying taxes in the home country. In that
respect, tax havens play a major role in facilitating tax evasion.61
Contractor has identified seven methods of tax avoidance by
multinational companies:62

•  Exemption/deferral: not remitting profit from subsidiaries;
•  Transfer pricing: high price in high-tax country;
•  Royalties payments: overcharging in high-tax country;
•     Intracorporate loans manipulating interests between affiliated
  companies;
• Charging overheads;
• Round tripping: using tax havens;
•   Shifting corporate office to a low-tax country using an acquired
  company in that country.

Figure 4.7 demonstrates these methods of tax avoidance using a
fictitious example.
Figure 4.7 Example of tax evasion

   The OECD’s 132 member states have implemented the
recommendations of the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange
of Information for Tax Purposes.63 The European Union established in
2016 an Anti-Tax Avoidance Package to coordinate member countries’
efforts to prevent tax evasion; a difficult undertaking given the disparity
of corporate taxes among members.64

Political financing

Another concern that has often been expressed about some
multinational companies is their interference in internal politics and the
promotion of legislation designed to protect their interests. This can be
a case of directly financing a political opposition party in order to
remove a government. It can also take the form of intensive lobbying
in order to change unfavourable legislation or promote the sponsoring
of biased research programmes. The oil and gas, mining, agro-
chemicals, pharmaceuticals and tobacco industries have been
particularly involved in the past in such practices.
  Lobbying activities are not in themselves illegal, as long as there is a
certain level of transparency in the activities of the lobbyists.65 It is
estimated that there are 30,000 registered lobbyists at the European
Commission in Brussels.

Global corporations’ ethics and corporate social
responsibility
Business ethics has been defined as ‘how a company integrates core
values such as honesty, trust, respect and fairness into its policies,
practices and decision-making’.66 It encompasses issues of conflicts
of interests, financial and accounting integrity, corruption and bribery,
ethical advertising, bio-ethics and employee privacy. These issues are
not specific to international business but the differences in legislation,
cultures and practices make the implementation of ethical behaviour
more subject to what is known as an ‘ethical dilemma’.67 ‘Ethical
dilemma’ describes the moral conflicts that occur when making a
morally right choice that may generate a bad outcome or when making
a morally wrong choice that may result in a good outcome. For
instance, terminating the contract to a supplier who employs children
is an example of making a morally right choice that may result in a bad
outcome: the loss of income to poor families. Paying a bribe to buy
back the freedom of prostitutes is a morally wrong choice that may
result in a good outcome. It has been argued that, despite a strong
temptation to postpone or shelve those difficult decisions, the
resolution of ethical dilemma is the responsibility of business
managers who need to be guided by the key principle of transparency.
According to Sir Adrian Cadbury, ‘actions are unethical if they don’t
stand scrutiny’.68
   Business ethics as a moral obligation has led to the development of
the corporate social responsibility (CSR) movement, defined as ‘the
obligations of firms to society or more specifically to those affected by
corporate policies and practices’.69 CSR is not new, although for a
long time dealing with social issues was left to the conscience of
individuals, to religious sermons70 or to legislators. However, since the
1960s, a series of events (see Insert 4.5) have generated a vast
global public opinion movement that has questioned the role of
multinational corporations (MNCs) with respect to the environment and
social matters, and pushed corporations to enforce policies and
communicate their practices with regard to their responsibilities in
those domains. The need for communication has led to the
development of social reporting. Today, environmental, ethical and
social issues are considered to be near the top of the list of corporate
concerns and they engage a multiplicity of organizations that interact
to form an ‘ethical web’, as described in Figure 4.8.




Figure 4.8 The global ethical web
Note: The list of organizations shown here is not exhaustive.


An ongoing debate
In 1970, Milton Friedman wrote an article in the New York Times
entitled ‘The social responsibility of business is to increase its
profits’,71 in which he claimed first that only individuals can have
responsibilities and second that it is not the responsibility of business
executives to spend shareholders’ money on tasks that are elected
legislators’ duties. This extreme line of thinking has been strongly
challenged on philosophical grounds as well as practical ones. Today it
is well established that ‘the debate is no longer whether to make
substantial commitments to corporate social responsibility, but how’.72
For some, being responsible is a good value proposition (see Insert
4.4, ‘Doing well by doing good’) and, for others, it is a hypocritical
application of self-interest. Although CSR seems now to be well
accepted, there are still some companies that deny the responsibility
of corporations on certain ecological or social issues such as global
warming or free licensing of medical treatment for AIDS in the
developing world. Hypocritical behaviour is also experienced by
managers who ‘feel strong organisational pressure to do things that
they believe are sleazy, unethical and sometimes illegal’,73 despite the
fact that officially their company adopts a socially responsible position.
With the increasing globalization of the world and the variety of ethical
dilemmas faced, as well as increasingly global ecological and social
issues, multinational firms have been forced, willingly or not, to
confront their responsibility in some areas (see Table 4.1). Since the
1970s, CSR has increasingly been on the agenda of business leaders,
governments and international institutions.74


  Insert 4.4 Doing well by doing good
  Some academic studies suggest that ethically and socially
  responsible behaviour and investment by corporations is not an
  economic losing proposition, and is often associated with
  profitability. The causality is not direct and not necessarily visible
  in the short term. It requires the corporation to consider that,
  beside shareholders, external stakeholders play an important role
  in the well-being of the enterprise. It also means that the incentive
  systems motivate employees to behave with a socially
  responsible view.

  The opponents to that view point out that such an approach is a
  defensive one that does not contribute to profit but instead avoids
  loss. Given the negative image attached to misconduct and the
  loss of sales or investment that may ensue, companies can be
  better off by being seen to address some significant sustainable
  development issues such as protection of human rights,
  environmental protection or anti-corruption measures.


Global companies and business ethics

Global corporations as global citizens

Corporate social responsibility is not limited to restrictive practices of
corruption, environmental protection or human dignity: those are the
don’ts of global management behaviour. There are more positive
aspects of doing business internationally: the dos that encompass the
contributions to economic, social, technological and human
development in the country in which the global firm operates. This is
what is called ‘global citizenship’. There is no accepted definition of
global citizenship but, according to Hewlett-Packard (which has
appointed a Senior Vice President for Corporate Affairs and Global
Citizenship since 2005), it represents a commitment to ‘Conducting
business with uncompromising integrity, to engage with a variety of
external stakeholders – from local communities to the United Nations,
to provide resources to improve access to technology and educational
opportunities, to develop products and services that are
environmentally sustainable, to protect the privacy of our customers,
partners and employees.’75 As can be seen, three out of the five
commitments are on the proactive, positive side of conducting
business. The kinds of actions that can be exhibited in these three
categories are:


  Insert 4.5 What sparked the corporate
  responsibility movement
  •    In the 1970s, the campaign against apartheid imposed a
    boycott of British and US banks which lent money to South
    Africa.
  •   In February 1976, a Lockheed executive revealed that the
    company had paid bribes to Japanese government officials to
    buy its aircraft. The ensuing scandal accelerated the
    enactment of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
  •    In 1984, a gas leak at Union Carbide’s pesticide plant in
    Bhopal, India killed more than 2,000 people.
  •      In 1988, the Asian-American Free Labour Association
    (AAFLA, a branch of the AFL-CIO trade union) found that Nike,
    the sporting goods company, used contractors in Indonesia
    who were breaking Indonesian labour laws and paying workers
    below-subsistence wages.
  •    In 1995, environmentalists from Greenpeace occupied the
    Brent Spar oil rig in the North Sea to prevent Shell going
    through with their original plan to dump the decommissioned rig
    into the water. This triggered a complete re-evaluation of
    company policies and practices that led Shell to produce an
    annual report on sustainable development.


      a       Dialogue and engagement with local stakeholders and
          communities:
          • Contribute actively to community development in the form of
            grants, social, cultural and sporting events.
      •   Engage with schools and universities by offering research
        funds, individual grants and opportunities for internships.
      • Offer educational opportunities.
      • Participate in the local chamber of commerce and contribute
        to dialogue with authorities in any debate concerning
        ecological, technical or economic issues.
      • Sponsor medical campaigns.
      • Facilitate the ad hoc detachment of in-house experts to local
       councils, schools and community institutions.
   b     Provide resources to improve access to technology and
     educational opportunities:
     • Donate computers to schools and institutions.
     • Donate machinery that can foster rural development.
     • Engage in training campaigns and development programmes
       such as internet usage, irriga-tion and preventive medicine.
   c     Develop products and services that are environmentally
     sustainable:
      •   Use biodegradable packaging.
      •   Favour renewable energy when possible.

The Triple Bottom Line

The Triple Bottom Line (TBL) was developed by a British management
consultant, John Elkington, in 1994 while he was working for the think
tank SustainAbility. It is the belief that companies should commit to
social and environmental concerns as much as to profits. Thus,
instead of one bottom line (that traditionally means profits) there
should be three: profit, people and the planet. A TBL gauges a
company’s commitment to corporate social responsibility (CSR).
Elkington used the phrase as a way of measuring performance in
American companies – measuring their impact on the environment
over time.
  TBL measures the financial, social and environmental performance
of a company. The TBL theorizes that if a firm concentrates on profit
uniquely, thus ignoring people and the planet, it does not account for
the full cost of doing business. Companies should work simultaneously
on all three bottom lines:

1    Profit: traditional measure of corporate profit (P&L);
2      People: how socially responsible the company has been
  historically;
3 Planet: how environmentally responsible a business has been over
  time.


    Insert 4.6 Examples of global citizen
    programmes

    Carrefour Start-up Challenge in Brazil

    In 2017, with the support of Carrefour, the French NGO Hello
    Tomorrow promoted the Start-up Challenge in Brazil to encourage
    start-ups and businesspeople to propose solutions for the
    development of foods that are healthier (production, distribution,
    handling, storage and nutritional information), more sustainable
    (development, production, distribution) and with less waste
    (production, handling, storage, marketing, usage and recycling).
    Winners are granted financial rewards to implement their
    projects.

    HSBC Water Programme in Mexico

    As part of its global Water Programme the bank is working with
    the NGO Urbana to provide sustainable sources of water to
    families in Mexico who suffer from chronic shortage. The
    investment in the project is part of HSBC’s $100 million Water
    Programme which aims to provide hundreds of thousands of
people with access to safe water and sanitation and to protect
the biodiversity of important river systems. Over the course of the
project, 641 rainwater harvesting systems will be installed in low-
income communities in the Huichol mountains in Jalisco and on the
southern edge of Mexico City, where many houses are not
connected to the water system.

Unilever Perfect Village initiative

Launched first in India in 2000 and extended to Vietnam in 2013
and Pakistan in 2015, the Perfect Village initiative consists of
helping local communities and small-scale retailers to grow their
businesses while becoming more aware of Unilever’s products
and their uses. This means educating and employing ‘Women
Ambassadors’ in the selected village.

Danone’s Naandi Community Water Services
funding

Naandi Community Water Services (NCWS) is a company that
builds micro-factories in villages. The factories filter water using
simple, effective and inexpensive technology (reverse osmosis or
ultra-violet filtration), and communities come to buy their water at
a very reasonable price of around four cents (three pence) per
20-litre jug. This initiative is funded by the Danone Communities
Fund and the Danone Ecosystem Fund.

Google Global Fishing Watch (GFW) platform

Google, in association with SkyTruth, an NGO focused on
satellite-based environmental monitoring, and Oceana, an NGO
devoted to ocean protection, developed the Global Fishing Watch
(GFW) platform that identifies vessels suspected of fishing
illegally, and tracks them.
Sources: Companies’ sustainability reports.
Integrating social responsibility policies into business
strategies

Confronted with criticism, some firms have developed policies and
practices designed to integrate social responsibility issues into their
business strategies. Forest Reinhart at the Harvard Business School
found that those strategies were based on three inter-related
developments:76

   a     Design and implementation of information systems, both
     internal and external, in order to understand the environmental
     impact of products over their entire life cycle, as well as the
     concerns and expectations of customers, employees,
     environmentalists, international institutions and governments.
     Such information is complemented by proactive communication
     such as the yearly Shell Report: People, Planet and Profit, in
     which the company documents the actions that it has taken to
     meet its economic, environmental and social responsibilities.77
     The UN Global Compact has developed a Communication on
     Progress model for companies to follow for social reporting
     implementation. In parallel with this, 250 companies are
     participating in Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), a non-
     profit corporate membership organization that has developed a
     Global Reporting Initiative proposing a series of indicators to
     measure and disclose their performance regarding social
     responsibility.78 These indicators are compatible with the Global
     Compact guidelines.
   b    Design and implementation of incentive systems devoted to
     fostering sustainable development performances, such as tying
     bonuses to good environmental practice.
   c   Contribution to institutions, such as the Global Compact (see
     Table 4.7), the World CSR (which groups different organizations
     such as the Business Impact), The Center for Corporate
        Citizenship at Babson College, The Prince of Wales Business
        Leader Forum (PWBLF), CSR Europe and Business Impact,
        Global Sullivan Principles. Online Appendix 4.1 lists
        organizations that are active in promoting corporate social
        responsibility.
Table 4.7 The ten principles of the UN Global Compact


  Human rights
  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection
  of internationally proclaimed human rights; and
  Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights
  abuses.

  Labour standards
  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association
  and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;
  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory
  labour;
  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and
  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of
  employment and occupation.

  Environment
  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach
  to environmental challenges;
  Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental
  responsibility; and
  Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of
  environmentally friendly technologies.
  Anti-corruption
  Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of
  corruption, including extortion and bribery.

 The Global Compact’s ten principles enjoy universal consensus and
 are derived from:
   The Universal Declaration of Human Rights
   The International Labour Organization’s Declaration on
   Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work
   The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development
   The United Nations Convention Against Corruption

Source: UN, The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact,
https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles (accessed 1 February 2022).

   At the World Economic Forum, Davos, on 31 January 1999, UN
Secretary-General Kofi Annan challenged world business leaders to
‘embrace and enact’ the Global Compact’s ten principles, both in their
individual corporate practices and by supporting appropriate public
policies. These principles cover topics in human rights, labour and the
environment.
   The Global Compact is now a network of organizations and
corporations that adhere to the ten principles. It asks companies to
embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of
core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the
environment and anti-corruption (see Table 4.7).

Codes of conduct

As mentioned earlier, many public and private organizations have tried
to provide guidelines to companies in the form of codes of conduct.
  There are five types of code of conduct.79

1 Company codes
Codes that are adopted unilaterally by companies such as Levi
Strauss, Marks & Spencer, Starbucks, HP, Adidas, 3M, Apple, Nestlé,
Novartis, Google, HSBC and Reuters.

2 Trade association codes

These are adopted by a group of firms in a particular industry. Like
company codes, they tend to be a unilateral measure adopted by the
firms. They may be adopted by associations of firms based in
developed countries, as in the case of the British Toy and Hobby
Association code, or by firms in developing countries, such as the
Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association
(BGMEA) code and the Kenya Flower Council code.

3 Multi-stakeholder codes

These are adopted as a result of negotiations between several
stakeholders, including firms or their industry representatives, NGOs
and/or trade unions. Governments may also be involved in the
development of such codes. The UK’s Ethical Trade Initiative Base
Code is an example of such a multi-stakeholder approach.

4 Model codes

These are designed to provide a benchmark of what a particular
organization regards as good practice. They are not generally applied
in practice, but intended as a model which companies or trade
associations could follow. These have been proposed by trade unions,
for example, the ICFTU’s Basic Code of Conduct covering Labour
Practices, and by NGOs such as Amnesty International.

5 Inter-governmental codes

These are negotiated at an international level and are agreed by
national governments. They date back to the 1970s when both the
OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the ILO’s
Tripartite Declaration of Principles Concerning Multinational
Enterprises were adopted.
   Appendix 4.2 gives a list of codes alongside the organization that
provides them. The first and most prominent is the OECD Guidelines
for Multinational Enterprises (see Appendix 4.3).80 The guidelines are
recommendations addressed by governments to multinational
enterprises operating in or from adhering countries (the thirty OECD
member countries plus nine non-member countries: Argentina, Brazil,
Chile, Estonia, Israel, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania and Slovenia). They
provide voluntary principles and standards for responsible business
conduct in a variety of areas including employment and industrial
relations, human rights, environment, information disclosure,
competition, taxation, and science and technology. The Guidelines
were first published in 1976 and have been regularly reviewed since
then. Those guidelines serve as a template for other initiatives.
   Codes of conduct are important instruments of communication,
education and reporting for the firms that are genuinely willing to
accept their social responsibilities. These codes have been criticized
on the ground that ‘codes are little more than general statements of
business ethics with no indication of the way in which they are to be
implemented’.81

Social responsibility and global firms: an ongoing
challenge
We have described the most salient issues concerning the social
responsibilities of global firms. The list is not exhaustive and every day
new cases appear; firms are caught off guard and have to react and
adjust their policies. Some adopt a very defensive attitude, but soon
realize that it does not work. A multiple dialogue between
governments, NGOs, international institutions, the media and public
opinion and industry associations has been going on since the 1990s,
and will progressively align corporate strategies relating to human
dignity. The ‘ethical dimension’ has now reached the financial markets
with the development of socially responsible investing (SRI) in which
investors select companies that are considered to be socially
responsible.82 However, as the case of corruption demonstrates,
improvement is slow and regressive behaviour can still be exhibited.
On climate change, the US government refused, on behalf of American
industrialists, to sign the 1997 Kyoto Treaty on the reduction of carbon
dioxide emissions. During the Obama administration the US adopted a
more positive stand by signing the Paris COP21 in 2016, a decision
that was reversed by the Trump administration. New ethical debates
arise daily, as in the cases of bio-ethics, genetically modified (GM)
organisms and the right of pharmaceutical companies to limit the
development of alternative HIV drugs in developing countries. More
and more, global firms are being held accountable for impacts that
were traditionally the domain of government, and this looks likely to be
one of the most challenging tasks for the future.

The role of business schools

In response to the many challenges the world is facing in all aspects
of society from economic, political, social to environmental and
technological ones, the member states of the United Nations drew up
the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). These are a cohesive
and centralized framework for discussing a new development model,
good for people and the planet. Business schools play a key role in
training future leaders to address these challenges (see Figure 4.1).
The Responsible Research for Business and Management (RRBM) is
a virtual organization designed to encourage and support research in
business and management disciplines. It was developed by a group of
twenty-four leading scholars in five disciplines at twenty-three
university-based business schools in ten countries but has grown into
a larger community. Among its partners are AACSB, EFMD, PRME,
Aspen Institute’s Business and Society Program and GRLI as well as
many business schools worldwide.
   Students of business are increasingly demanding management skills
in sustainable and responsible business practices. One example of
how business can work as a force for good is INSEAD’s Hoffmann
Global Institute for Business and Society (HGIBS) that aims to align
business education with the SDGs, as business leaders discuss the
SDGs and use them to account for their contributions to society.
Founded in August 2018, its goal is to integrate sustainability across
all activities and mobilize all stakeholders for impact. The institute
does this through researching and developing sustainable business
models; exploring means of operating sustainably and inspiring a
diverse group of future leaders whilst engaging with its global alumni
community to expand the impact.

Covid-19 and the green recovery

‘We need to turn the recovery into a real opportunity to do things right
for the future’. – UN Secretary-General António Guterres83

What is a ‘green recovery’?

The Covid-19 pandemic, which was declared by the World Health
Organization (WHO) on 11 March 2020,84 resulted in an
unprecedented global economic downturn due to entire sectors of the
economy, such as tourism and hospitality, being partially or completely
shut down during national lockdowns. The World Bank estimated the
global economic contraction to be 4.3 per cent in 202085 with a slower
than expected recovery due to the emergence of variants and
resurgence of Covid-19 cases worldwide.
   According to S&P, the most impacted sectors of the pandemic are
airlines, leisure facilities and restaurants.86
   Governments across the globe have mobilized significant resources
and deployed extraordinary policy measures to support recovery from
the crisis and these efforts were further boosted by the approval of
the first Covid-19 vaccine by the Food and Drug Administration87 and
the European Medicines Agency88 in December 2020. As
governments plan the road out of the crisis and into recovery, it is
increasingly recognized that the Covid-19 pandemic and the reduction
in economic activity have important implications for how the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development, with the 17 Sustainable
Development Goals adopted by United Nations Member States in
September 2015,89 is implemented across countries. International
organizations like the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)
have called on governments to implement a ‘green recovery’ through
stimulus packages that integrate economic, social and climate change
objectives with recovery policy needs.90

Opportunities associated with a ‘green recovery’

The reduction in economic activity caused by the Covid-19 pandemic,
especially transportation and industrial activity, resulted in
unprecedented reductions in greenhouse gas emissions; it is
estimated that global energy-related CO2 emissions fell by 5.8 per
cent in 2020, which is the largest annual percentage decline since the
Second World War.91 A ‘green recovery’ would involve policy
measures that support further reduction in greenhouse gas emissions
even as the economy recovers, through raising the cost of emissions
and providing fiscal stimulus to ‘green’ activities such as climate-smart
infrastructure and technologies, that both boost aggregate demand
and employment.92
   One of the key enablers of a ‘green recovery’ is argued to be
transitioning to a circular economy, which has the potential to drive
multiple policy objectives including the reinvigoration of the economy in
a climate-friendly way. It is estimated that global transition to a circular
economy could reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 25 per cent,
generate savings of $200 billion per year and create 700,000 jobs by
2040.93 The European Union (EU) has been at the forefront of this
transition through developing a Circular Economy Action Plan, a key
building block of the European Green Deal, which lays out the
roadmap to achieve the EU’s 2050 climate neutrality target.94
   Finally, the Covid-19 pandemic has also induced considerable
changes in individual behaviour and preferences, which are expected
to have long-term consequences in terms of the way people work and
travel. It is expected that increased demand for work-from-home from
employees will remain high and that airline travel will see a slow return
to pre-pandemic levels driven by uncertainty surrounding the future of
business travel.95 Sustaining these changes is considered an important
driver of a ‘green recovery’ through reduced greenhouse gas
emissions and energy usage, which will therefore likely shape future
preferences and demand that companies across the globe need to
prepare for.

Challenges to a ‘green recovery’
While there are considerable opportunities and optimism associated
with a ‘green recovery’, there are severe challenges in terms of its
implementation and a risk that quick economic recovery is prioritized
over climate change considerations. The OECD estimates that only 17
per cent of the total sums allocated to global Covid-19 recovery so far
have been allocated to environmentally positive measures, with the
rest of the funding either not considering environmental dimensions or
reversing progress made so far.96 The OECD calls for governments to
increase the component of total Covid-19 spending on a green
recovery, to align policy measures across sectors such as agriculture,
waste management and forestry, and finally, to invest in skills and
innovation required for a sustainable recovery.




  MINI-CASE 4.3

  Operation Car Wash

  Brazil, one of the world’s largest emerging markets with the ninth
  largest economy, has a population of 208 million and GDP of $1.8
  trillion.97 In 2014, a federal police superintendent in Brazil began
  an operation codenamed ‘Lava Jato’ (Car Wash),98 one of largest
  anti-corruption investigations in the world. It unveiled the shady
relationships between government contractors, political campaign
agencies and high-profile politicians in what were known as ‘pay-
for-play’ schemes – bribes and campaign contributions paid by
major corporations to government officials and political parties in
exchange for lucrative government contracts which were over-
invoiced to ‘cover the costs’. A number of state-owned companies
including Petrobras, the national oil company (over $88.8 billion in
revenues in 2017),99 were part of a system of institutionalized
corruption whereby corporate executives overpaid an average of
3 per cent for contracts that were awarded on the basis of their
political ties. Operation Car Wash uncovered ‘backstage’
agreements struck by public officials involving billions of dollars
(Petrobras alone was estimated to have paid out over $2 billion).
   Federal Judge Sérgio Moro was a key protagonist in Operation
Car Wash and subsequently named among the ‘World’s Greatest
Leaders’ by Fortune, the ‘100 Most Influential People’ by Time
and the ‘Fifty Most Influential’ list by Bloomberg Magazine.
Moro’s convictions included former president Luis Inácio Lula da
Silva (one of the most popular politicians in Latin America), a
former speaker of the House of Representatives, two former
ministers of state and a former governor of Rio de Janeiro (the
state with the second-highest GDP). Operation Car Wash also
resulted in the imprisonment of some of Brazil’s most powerful
businessmen.
   By 2019, $3.4 billion in public funds had been recovered and
445 people indicted, many officials from the leftist Workers Party
who had been in power since 2003. By June 2020, the
investigations had led to prison sentences totalling over 2,200
years for 165 prominent Brazilians.100 The combined efforts of
Operation Car Wash in Curitiba, Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo
resulted in more than 200 penal actions, with 217 defendants
convicted, 256 individual plea bargains, 21 corporate agreements
and 121 investigations.101 Operation Car Wash prompted a
number of reforms in Brazil that forced companies to take
measures against corruption. Among 250 Brazilian companies
interviewed by KPMG in 2015, 57 per cent had ethics and
compliance programmes in place; a year later the figure had risen
to 76 per cent and by 2019 only 3 per cent did not have
compliance procedures. However, 18 per cent of respondents in
2019 said they had no dedicated area for compliance, 32 per
cent thought their resources were inadequate and 16 per cent
believed there was a lack of independence/ autonomy.102
   Operation Car Wash had repercussions in other Latin American
countries, including the resignation in March 2018 of Peru’s
president, Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, who was accused of taking
bribes from engineering company Odebrecht when he was a
cabinet minister.103 Others involved in scandals were Colombian
president Juan Manuel Santos and Venezuelan president Nicolas
Maduro.104
   New president: After a turbulent campaign, Jair Messias
Bolsonaro was sworn in as President of Brazil on 1 January 2019.
He appointed Sergio Moro as Minister of Justice and Public
Security. Moro accepted the post believing it was an opportunity
to consolidate the achievements of Operation Car Wash and
permanently strengthen the rule of law from Brasilia. Moro was
replaced in the Car Wash cases, resulting in a slowdown in the
speed cases were judged. Some said it was because the judge
had to get acquainted with the cases, others blamed his profile.
On average, it took Moro eleven and a half months to issue a
verdict. In September 2019, cases awaiting a decision from
Judge Luis Antonio Bonat had taken twenty-six months.105
   From the start, Minister Moro and the Operation Car Wash
team experienced difficulties. As Moro had been responsible for
the conviction of former president Lula, Moro’s new role in the
government led to accusations of a conflict of interest. Lula would
have been the Workers’ Party (PT) presidential candidate in 2018
and was ahead in the polls even from jail. Some said that Lula
being blocked from running paved the way for Bolsonaro’s
victory.106
   In June 2019, a whistleblower delivered files containing
thousands of confidential messages exchanged among the
leaders of Operation Car Wash to Intercept, an investigative left-
leaning website.107 The recordings and text messages appeared
to show prosecutors colluding with Moro during the investigations,
prompting claims that the trials were unfair.108 Moro and the
prosecutors claimed that the alleged recordings had been
obtained illegally by hacking their accounts and insisted there was
nothing illegal in the leaked dialogues.
   Congress passed legislation in 2019 aimed at preventing the
abuse of power by prosecutors109 and later by rejecting an anti-
corruption package proposed by Moro to strengthen the fight
against corruption, notably the institutionalization of prison after
the first appellate court conviction.110
   In April 2020, Sergio Moro resigned as Justice Minister,
alleging that Bolsonaro had interfered in the federal police by
replacing its main leaders in an attempt to protect his family and
friends from ongoing investigations. His resignation triggered a
political crisis for Bolsonaro, adding to the health crisis sparked
by the Covid-19 pandemic. On resigning, Moro said, ‘I didn’t enter
the government to serve a master. I entered it to serve the
country, the law.’111
   When Moro returned to Curitiba, he could not resume his
previous role since when agreeing to become Justice Minister he
had had to resign and renounce all benefits associated with the
twenty-two years he had served as federal judge.112
   Covid-19: In March 2020 Brazil was in crisis following the
outbreak of Covid-19. Lockdowns and social distancing measures
were responsible for economic debacle. Brazil was one of the
most affected countries globally.113 Bolsonaro’s opponents
blamed the president as he downplayed the pandemic, railed
against lockdown and promoted unproven cures.114 Covid-19
showed that systemic corruption was still alive and kick-ing in
Brazil. During the pandemic, local and state governments had to
make urgent purchases of ventilators and other medical
equipment using more flexible procurement processes because of
the emergency situation. It soon became clear Brazil was facing
not only a new disease but an old one: widespread corruption
was back. The press started to disclose corruption cases linked
to Covid-19 purchases. As of June 2020, purchases under
investigation amounted to more than R$1 billion (US$200 million).
A new probe opened every three days in response to allegations
of financial irregularities involving public budgets intended for
coronavirus relief.115
   Impact on the private sector: The impact of Operation Car
Wash on corruption in the public sector was significant, but was
even more profound in some business sectors. As a consequence
of the investigations, construction companies such as OAS, UTC,
Engevix, Camargo Correia and Queiroz Galvão had serious
financial problems and had to substantially restructure and create
compliance functions.116
   According to Sergio Moro, Operation Car Wash worked as a
wake-up call to the private sector in Brazil.117 ‘Doing the right
thing, having effective compliance, doing your homework, all this
is good for business and for profits.’118 Petrobras was one
example of how Car Wash had changed corporate Brazil. With a
complete change in the leadership team in 2014, it created the
role of Chief Governance and Compliance Executive Officer with
the goal of strengthening internal practices and mitigating risks
related to fraud and corruption. The objective was to make the
new director as independent as possible: they could only be
dismissed with the permission of board members who
represented minority non-government shareholders.119 The
company had to work fast to mitigate risks, first by creating a
robust compliance system with new controls and procedures. This
generated a perception by some of increased bureaucracy and
loss of agility. In a second phase it moved to an ‘Integrity system’
whereby compliance was instilled in every employee. Almost 200
employees across every area were trained as ‘Integrity Agents’ in
compliance and integrity issues. Employees were obliged to take
so-called ‘integrity pills’ – short videos broad-cast internally to
create awareness.120 To reinforce compliance and integrity
principles, the company created a series of mandatory trainings
(online and in-person); non-attendance would prevent an
employee from being promoted or advancing to a higher level.
Specific trainings were made available for external stakeholders
such as vendors and contractors.
   Its efforts were recognized externally. In September 2020, the
World Economic Forum agreed to allow Petrobras to re-join the
PACI (Partnering Against Corruption Initiative), one of the main
international organizations in the fight against corruption, formed
by compliance officers from large multinational companies,
international institutions and government bodies. Petrobras was a
member of this initiative until 2014, when the scandal broke. The
company also joined other external groups that discuss and share
best practices in compliance-related issues, such as the
Compliance Commission of IBP (Brazilian Petrol Institute) and the
Entrepreneurial Act for Integrity, Prevention and Fight Against
Corruption of Instituto Ethos.
   At the end of 2020, Sergio Moro declared: ‘I really believe that
Operation Car Wash changed things in Brazil. It’s not difficult to
go back to the anti-corruption agenda. It will depend on political
will.’121

Questions:

1  What do you believe were the most important achievements
  of Operation Car Wash in the fight against corruption?
2   Do you believe Brazil will be a better place to do business
  going forward or will the achievement brought by Operation
  Car Wash be ephemeral?
This Mini-case is based on two INSEAD Case Studies: Monteiro and Albuquerque (2018)
and Monteiro and Kertesz (2021).
MINI-CASE 4.4

Enel

Enel was one of the largest power utilities companies in the
world, with €80 billion in revenues for 2019. Its gross operating
margin of €17.7 billion was generated from renewables (43 per
cent), thermal (45 per cent) and nuclear (12 per cent). Enel
worked in thirty-two countries across five continents, with 67,000
employees. It generated energy with a managed capacity of
more than 89.8 GW, selling gas and distributing electricity across
a network spanning 2.2 million km for 74 million end users,
making it the largest private electric distribution network
globally.122
   The Enel Group was the first private renewable player
worldwide, with a renewable footprint of over forty-six GW
managed capacity in 2019. Half the energy generated was with
zero CO2 emissions. The company was the first to replace
traditional electromechanical meters with smart electronic meters,
enabling real-time readings and remote-control management for
greater energy efficiency. This was critical for the development of
intelligent grids, smart cities and electric transportation.123
   Francesco Starace had been responsible for the success of
Enel Green Power, before he was appointed Enel’s CEO in 2014.
He introduced a new strategy to capture value in the energy
transition. Sustainability was the key to growth in this new
environment. He made sustainability a pillar of growth and aligned
the strategic plans of Enel with the UN SDGs aiming to be
carbon-free by 2050.
   Enel’s goal was to create long-term sustainable value for all its
stakeholders by adhering to UN Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs) in its investment decisions. Its plan was to reduce
specific CO2 emissions by 2030 (SDG13: 0.23 g/ kWheq) and to
promote the economic and social growth of the local communities
where it operated. Other goals by 2030 were: SDG4 quality
education for 2.5 m beneficiaries, SDG7 affordable and clean
energy for 10 million people, SDG8 decent work conditions for 8
million beneficiaries. They moved from a CSR approach to one
that aimed to change the way a utility could stay in the market in
the long run, running a sustainable business through innovation.
Enel translated the academic Creating Shared Value approach
into a methodology applied to its value chain, so that sustainability
was integrated into daily activities not by a central function, but by
the people managing the business, from Business Development to
Engineering, Construction, and Procurement up to Operation.
   To capture value from the four macro trends, innovation had a
key role in a world that was changing faster than its ability to
adapt. Starace then hired Ernesto Ciorra, an entrepreneur and
former consultant, to lead Enel’s innovation and sustainabilitiy
efforts.
   The result was ‘innovability’ – innovation and sustainability
combined.
   Enel built an Open Power platform that allowed electricity
access to more people and opened the world of energy to new
technologies, uses, ways of managing and partnerships. An
international network of ‘Innovation Hubs’ were set up in Israel,
USA, Spain, Italy, Russia, Brazil and Chile, and ‘Open Innovability’
(the first energy crowdsourc-ing platform) launched – connecting
outside innovations with the company’s internal needs. Corporate
culture was transformed with a matrix structure implemented
based on lines of business and geographical regions. The
business lines (Thermal Generation, Trading, Infrastructure &
Networks, and Enel Green Power) were responsible for
managing and developing assets, with the goal of optimizing
performance and increasing return on capital for all the regions
where Enel was present.
   The geographic units were responsible for the sale of electricity
and natural gas, and managing relationships with external
stakeholders (P&L was reflected in the matrix structure: revenues
were the responsibility of the country manager, costs (CAPEX
and OPEX) were the responsibility of the business lines, while
EBITDA was a shared objective). Prior to this restructuring the
organizational structure had been vertical with decisions made
from the top down with each division operating separately. When
Starace become CEO in 2014, Enel was a portfolio of companies
operating almost independently. Each country manager was in
charge of P&L along the entire value chain (generation,
distribution, marketing and sales) but there was little
communication among countries or divisions, and no sharing of
ideas.
   Under the new matrix structure innovability teams were set up
in every business line, managed by innovation managers. The
innovability teams looked for challenges at every level of their
respective business lines, scouted and tested solutions, and
supported their colleagues in implementing these solutions into the
real business. Having the innovability teams working within the
business lines and in a matrix structure allowed the company to
test projects more efficiently and avoid duplication across
countries and business lines, reducing the cost of innovation.
Innovation and sustainability were embedded in the lines, hence
they became more direct, faster and efficient.
   Another major change was the creation of the Digital Solutions
staff function in 2018, formed from the merger of the ICT
department with business people. The aim was to work towards
the digitalization of the Group’s assets, its client relationships and
the way employees worked. Over 2,000 people in the Group
adopted ‘agile’ methodology to support the quest for innovation
and digitalization. Digital Solutions had its own dedicated
Innovation Manager.
   A complete change of mindset was also required. Several
programmes were launched including ‘My Best Failure’, launched
in 2015. The idea was to encourage employees to share their
‘failure stories’ online within the Group, reward entrepreneurial
spirit and replace fear of mistakes with an ‘open, no blame
culture’ that thrived on lessons learned. A corporate
entrepreneurship programme was launched called ‘Make it
Happen!’, where employees were encouraged to form teams and
develop ideas for new start-ups or ways to improve Enel’s
business. To ensure the success of the open innovation approach,
Enel needed fast access to new ideas, technologies and business
models from start-ups, SMEs, universities and researchers
around the world.
   Innovation hubs: The company set up ten innovation hubs
worldwide connecting the Group to the best innovation
ecosystems in the world. These hubs continuously scouted new
opportunities for Enel’s traditional businesses and created new
valuable businesses that were sustainable long term for Enel and
its customers. Enel deployed local innovation hubs in countries
where it had a strong industrial presence – Chile (Santiago),
Brazil (Rio de Janeiro together with Sao Paulo) and Russia
(Moscow) – to be close to the people who implemented the
technology. By 2019, four years after the opening of the first
innovation hub in Tel Aviv, Enel had scouted more than 6,000
start-ups around the world and had done a preliminary
assessment on over 1,000 of them.
   In 2020, six years after Starace took control, Enel’s stock had
increased from €4.06 to €7.84 for a total market capitalization of
€99 billion.124 In November the same year Enel announced it
would invest €160 billion over ten years to become a green ‘super
major’ and carbon free by 2050. It planned to expand its green
hydrogen capacity to more than 2 GW by 2030 and phase out
coal by 2027. In 2018, Enel ranked number 28 on Fortune’s list of
companies that can ‘change the world’.125

Questions:

1  Does it make sense to put innovation and sustainability
  together? Why or why not?
2 What are the main benefits of having innovation hubs in
  different parts of the world, including emerging markets?
This Mini-case is based on an INSEAD case study: Monteiro and Benavente (2019).




MINI-CASE 4.5

Etisalat’s philanthropic activities

Etisalat Group is a telecoms corporation from the United Arab
Emirates, headquartered in Abu Dhabi. With revenues amounting
to AED 51.7 billion (US$14 billion), it operates in seventeen
countries across the Middle East, Asia and Africa.
   As part of its sustainability and social responsibility strategy,
Etisalat has developed a company policy of developing
relationships with multiple local stakeholders in the various
countries where it operates, referred to as ‘stakeholder
engagement’. As part of its engagement, the group considers
itself to be the ‘national champion for the UAE and … a quasi-
government’. As such, it pursues a series of philanthropic
activities worldwide, in conjunction with the UAE’s Ministry of
International Co-operation. It intervenes in the domain of
education, health, charities and civic infrastructure works. The
table gives a sample of these activities, performed directly or in
partnership with Dubai Cares, a philanthropic organization created
by the Emirati government to improve children’s access to quality
primary education in developing countries.

  EDUCATION                Donation of laptop computers to schools
 •   Sri Lanka             Financing of fully equipped libraries

 •   Nigeria               Financing of schools infrastructure
                           Financing of teacher training programme
                           (in association with the British Council)
•   Ivory Coast   Scholarships
                  School renovation

•   Afghanistan   Financing of computer labs in schools
                  Educational assistance for adults

•   Niger         School improvement programmes

HEALTH            Water purification and distribution
                  programmes
•   Egypt
•   Pakistan      Free wifi zones in public and private
                  hospitals
•   Niger         Providing air-conditioned maternity units
                  for patients
                  Providing mosquito nets to combat malaria

•   Ivory Coast   Building hospitals

•   Sri Lanka     HIV and AIDS awareness programme

CHARITY           Flood relief programme Career counselling
                  programme
•   Sri Lanka

•   Pakistan      Water supply for suburban areas

•   Niger         Food aid

CIVIC WORKS       Recycling of packaging material
•   Sri Lanka     Tree planting

•   Afghanistan   Reconstruction of mosques
                            Women’s empowerment programmes
                            Sponsoring National Volleyball Federation

 •    Pakistan              Tree planting programme
                            School enrolment programmes for girls in
                            remote areas
                            Emergency flood response programmes


Questions:

1  What benefits does a global corporation such as Etisalat
  draw from its philanthropic activities?
2 In financing these philanthropic activities, and in choosing
  which ones to support, does a global corporation run the risk
  of being seen as a substitute for the local government? If so,
  what are potential drawbacks to this?
Source: Etisalat CSR & Sustainability Report 2012,
http://www.etisalat.com/en/system/docs/reports/Etisalat-CSR-Sustainability-Report-
2012_lowres.pdf (accessed 2012).




MINI-CASE 4.6

Light Up The World (LUTW)

Light Up The World (LUTW) is an international development
organization whose goal is to provide renewable energy
technologies and high-efficiency lighting to communities around
the world that do not have access to appropriate and affordable
energy solutions.
   This Canadian non-profit organization imple-ments projects in
communities that do not have access to electricity. These projects
provide sustainable energy solutions and lighting to off-grid areas
(communities without a connection to the main electrical power
grid). This helps communities transition away from using fuel-
based lighting and spending a significant amount of their income
on batteries and charging cell phones.
   LUTW has two offices: the head office based in Calgary,
Canada, and a field office serving projects in South America,
based in Lima, Peru.
   Supported by donations from individuals, corporations, host
country NGOs, international foundations and industrial partners
(totalling some $750,000 annually), LUTW has brought light to
homes in fifty-four countries around the world, from Afghanistan
to Zambia.

The example of Peru

LUTW established its first field office in Peru to serve the
estimated 4 million people in the country without access to
electricity. Most of them live in the foot-hills of the Andes at high
altitude. Traditionally they used candles and kerosene as a
substitute for electricity. As of 2022 LUTW has powered over a
million projects helping more than a million families in fifty-five
countries around the world since its creation.
   LUTW designs and provides simple solar photovoltaic (PV)
systems that consist of a solar PV module (to generate
electricity) connected to a cable (to transport the electricity), a
controller (to regulate the
   voltage and current), battery (to store the electricity) and
devices such as light bulbs (which convert the electricity into a
useful service, light!). These low-voltage systems provide a basic
electrification service that includes lighting and communications
(by charging cell phones and powering radios) to homes in small,
rural, off-grid communities.
  The installation of a system is carried out by thirty-five
community solar technicians that are trained by LUTW.
  The cost of a system is around $360, out of which a household
has to pay $220, spread over the first year. This has to be
compared with an annual average of $240–360 spent on
kerosene and candles. The money saved can be used for
children’s education, improving nutrition or to finance small
businesses.

Question:

How can this organization globalize further?
Sources: LUTW’s website, http://lutw.org/; some data reproduced with permission of
INSEAD from R. Nair and P. Parker, ‘Light up the World (A): Lighting up the Developing
World’, INSEAD case no. 6231, https://publishing.insead.edu/case/light-world-peru-a-
lighting-developing-world (accessed 1 February 2022).


Summary and key points
1    Sustainable development is defined as ‘development that
  meets the needs of the present without compromising the
  ability of future generations to meet their own needs’
2    Sustainable development encompasses three main issues
  facing global companies:
  a Environmental:
        •     Global warming
        •     Resource depletion
        •     Eco-friendly practices
    b       Societal issues:
        •     Corruption
        •     Human rights and dignity
      • Financial malpractice
    c Global citizenship
3   Main environmental issues:
    a   Destruction of ozone layer
    b       Climate change and global warming
    c   Natural resource depletion:
        •    Deforestation
        •    Over-fishing
        •    Over-mining
    d       Waste production and disposal
    e   Persistent organic pollution
    f   Radioactive waste
4   Global warming is linked to CO2 emissions:
    a       At the Paris Conference in 2015 (COP21), 159
      governments agreed to limit temperature rise from gas
      emissions to 1.5 degrees Celsius above the pre-industrial
      level
    b The EU Emissions Trading Scheme organizes a market for
      CO2 emissions
5   Global firms can participate in environmental protection by:
    a   Controlling suppliers
    b       Making eco-friendly capital investments
    c   The green management of resources:
        •     reduction in material intensity
        •     reduction in energy intensity
        •     reduction in waste dispersion
        •     enhancement of recyclability
        •     maximum use of renewables
        •     extension of product durability
      • increase of service intensity
6   Business ethics encompasses issues of conflicts of interest,
  financial and accounting integrity, corruption and bribery,
  ethical advertising, bio-ethics and employee privacy
7      Corruption can be defined as the abuse of public office for
     private gain; a gift can be offered openly but a bribe cannot
     Two indices related to corruption were published up to 2011:
         •    Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI) is a score which
           relates to the perception of the degree of corruption,
           assessed by businesses, academics and risk analysts
         •   Bribe Payers Index (BPI) ranks exporting countries in
           terms of the degree to which their companies are
           perceived to be paying bribes abroad (not published
           since 2011)
    a There are five causes of corruption:
         • Administrative resource allocation: when administrative
           authorization and distribution replaces transparent
           market mechanisms
         • Lack of institutional checks, balances and information
         •      Inadequate funding of public services leading to
           relatively low remuneration of public servants and under-
           supply of public goods
         • Social and cultural factors leading to nepotism
         •            Abundance of natural resources leading to
              discrimination in the allocation of funds
     b       Effects of corruption:
         •     Direct:
              – Discourages domestic and foreign investments owing
                 to additional cost burden on projects
                 ○   Skews public capital expenditure in favour of new
                   equipment instead of operating existing equipment
           ○Reduces the productivity of public investments
         and reduces tax collection
  • Indirect:
   – Decreased work productivity through demotivation
      ○   Dislocation of social fabric
      ○   Loss of integrity within firms
      ○   Link with terrorism and criminal activities
c Global companies engage in bribery because of:
    • Need to keep up with competitors’ practices
    • Cultural justifications
    •     Result of an incentive system which emphasizes
     economic achievements
d   Anti-corruption measures:
    •       Disclose publicly and make widely known the
        company’s endorsement of anti-corruption measures
    •     Establish a clearly articulated written policy prohibiting
        employees from paying/receiving bribes
    •     Implement policies with due care and take disciplinary
        action for any violations
    •     Provide training and support to employees to carry out
        the policy
    •     Maintain full and proper accounting records, subject to
        periodic internal audit review
    •      Report annually on the firm’s bribery and corruption
        policy and describe the company’s experience in its
        enforcement; the annual report should be independently
        audited Require all agents/suppliers to affirm that they
        have neither made nor will make any improper payments
    •      Establish a monitoring and auditing system to detect
        any improper payments made by the firm’s
        employees/agents
        •  Report publicly any solicitation for payments
        •  Establish a system for employees/agents to report any
         improper payment without fear of retribution
8   Child labour
    a    Main ethical dilemma
    b   Global firms can be involved in child labour through their
      suppliers
9   Human rights are concerned with:
    a    Forced labour
    b       Racial or gender discrimination
    c    Health and safety
    d       Freedom of association
    e    Fair working conditions
10 Involvement in human rights abuses:
    a   Direct involvement: human rights infringed or ignored by
      global companies to protect their operations or profitability
   b Indirect involvement: contributions to political regimes that
      are involved in human rights abuse
11 Financial malpractices
    a      Financial malpractice refers to the ability of global
      corporations to use their multinational presence to deprive
      states of their normal share of taxes through tax evasion
   b     It also concerns their ability to interfere in local politics
      through the sponsoring of ‘friendly’ political parties or
      movements
12 Principles for global firms:
    a    Formulate a company policy on human rights
    b    Security arrangements should protect human rights and be
        consistent with international standards of law enforcement
   c     Get involved in community initiatives or bodies that
     promote human rights
   d Company policy should not approve discrimination, slavery
     or child labour practices
   e Provide safe and healthy working conditions and products
   f   All employees should have the freedom to associate with
      and the right to join collective bargaining mechanisms g
      Mechanisms should be established to monitor a company’s
      compliance with international human rights standards
13 Corporate social responsibility describes the obligations of
  firms to society or, more specifically, to those affected by
  corporate policies and practices
14 Global citizenship covers the following areas:
   a   Dialogue and engagement with local stakeholders and
     communities
   b   Provision of resources to improve access to technology
     and educational opportunities
   c       Development of products and services that are
     environmentally sustainable
   d   Use of biodegradable packaging
   e   Favouring renewable energy when possible
15 Global companies can handle their increasing responsibility
  for social issues that were traditionally the domain of
  governments by:
   a     Design and implementation of information systems and
      social reporting
   b    Design and implementation of incentive systems devoted
      to fostering sustainable development
   c Contribution to public and private institutions

Learning assignments
1   What are the main causes of corruption?
2  Which corrupt practices involving global firms have you heard
  of?
3 What dilemma may a country manager face when confronted
  by a request to solicit a bribe to obtain a major contract?
4 Which policies should a global firm implement to prevent
  corrupt practices?
5 How can corporate policies be designed to contribute to the
  protection of the global environment?
6  What should the country managers do if a local supplier in a
  developing country is employing twelve-year-old labourers?
7 Should a global company pull out of, or avoid investing in, a
  country well known for human rights abuses by its military
  rulers?
8 Draw a global ethical web for a pharmaceutical company
  engaged in anti-HIV drug production.
9 What are SRI funds? Select an SRI fund and track its
  performance as compared to the general evolution of the
  stock market.
10 What are the SDGs?
11 How can business schools play a further role in achieving the
   SDGs? Give an example of one way they can help.
12 What are the challenges facing companies in measuring their
   triple bottom line? How can they get buy in from all
   stakeholders to adopt the TBL rather than the traditional
   bottom line?
13 What are the main challenges to a green recovery post Covid-
   19?

Key words
•   Bribe
•   Child labour
•   Corporate social responsibility (CSR)
•   Corruption
•   Covid-19 green recovery
•   Environmental crisis
•   Ethics
•   Human rights
•   Socially responsible investment (SRI)
•   Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
•   Transparency International (TI)
•   Triple Bottom Line

Web resources
In addition to the resources mentioned in Appendices 4.1 and 4.2,
the following may be useful:

Corpwatch:
http://www.corpwatch.org
European Commission, Energy, Climate, Energy:
https://ec.europa.eu/clima/index_en
European Commission on Sustainable
Development:
https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/international-
strategies/sustainable-development-goals_en
McKinsey:
https://www.mckinsey.com/featured-insights/climate-change
World Business Council for Sustainable
Development:
www.wbcsd.org
World Bank Development Indicators:
https://databank.worldbank.org/source/
world-development-indicators
World Resources Institute:
https://www.wri.org
United Nations Environment Program:
https://www.unep.org
UNICEF (United Nations International Children
Emergency Fund):
https://www.unicef.org


    Companion website

    Visit the companion website at bloomsbury.pub/global-
    strategic-management-5e for a multitude of weblinks and
    resources, self-test questions for revision and appendices.


Notes
1                                                          Brundtland              Report:
   https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/content/documents/5987our-common-
   future.pdf
2                    World    Business     Council     for    Sustainable    development:
   https://www.wbcsd.org/Overview/About-us/Vision_2050
3                                   Rio        de         Janeiro       Conference(1992)
   https://www.un.org/en/development/desa/population/migration/generalassembly/docs/
   globalcompact/A_CONF.151_26_Vol.I_Declaration.pdf
4 United Nation: https://www.undp.org/sustainable-development-goals
5 https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/science
6 Sustainable Development goals: https://sdgs.un.org/goals
7 Ibid
8            United nations: https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/climate-action/
   (accessed 23 May 2021).
9     https://www.npr.org/2021/02/19/969387323/u-s-officially-rejoins-paris-agreement-on-
   climate-change?t=1651657261721 (accessed 4 May 2022).
10            https://www.corporateleadersgroup.com/reports-evidence-and-insights/news-
   items/eu-business-leaders-urge-higher-2030-emissions-reduction-targets (accessed
   23 May 2021).
11 https://euobserver.com/green-deal/150364 (accessed 23 May 2021).
12                  https://www.independent.co.uk/climate-change/news/hm-greenwashing-
   sustainable-circu-lose-venetia-falconer-manna-a9312566.html (accessed 23 May
   2021).
13 Delmas and Burbano (2011).
14 De Jong, Harkink and Barth (2018).
15       https://www.patagonia.com/stories/dont-buy-his-jacket-black-friday-and-the-new-
   york-times/story-18615.html (accessed 23 May 2021).
16 Awaysheh et al. (2020); Friede, Busch and Bassen (2015).
17 Burbano (2016); Bode and Singh (2018).
18 Kumar, Connell and Bhattacharyya (2020).
19 Battilana and Lee (2014).
20 Eldar (2017).
21    Global Emission of CO2: https://www.pbl.nl/sites/default/files/downloads/pbl-2020-
   trends-in-global-co2-and-total-greenhouse-gas-emissions-2019-report_4068.pdf
22 Tokyo protocol: https://unfccc.int/kyoto_protocol
23       European Trading Scheme: https://ec.europa.eu/clima/eu-action/eu-emissions-
   trading-system-eu-ets_en
24 Ibid
25 WWF International (2014) p.10
26                                                      Living                Planet             report:
   https://c402277.ssl.cf1.rackcdn.com/publications/1371/files/original/ENGLISH-
   FULL.pdf1599693362 (accessed 15 May 2021). The Living Planet Index (LPI) is a
   measure of the state of the world’s biological diversity based on population trends of
   vertebrate species from terrestrial, freshwater and marine habitats.
27 https://www.unep.org/explore-topics/forests (accessed 15 May 2021).
28 h t t p s : / / w w w . w o r l d w i l d l i f e . o r g / s t o r i e s / one-third-of-freshwater-
   fish-face-extinction-and-other-freshwater-fish-facts (accessed 15 May 2021).
29 h t t p s: // u n e s d o c .u n e s c o.o r g /a r k : /4 8 2 2 3 / pf0000375724 (accessed
   15 May 2021).
30 Husted (2013)
31 FAO: https://www.fao.org/3/i6583e/i6583e.pdf
32 Plas and Erdmenger (2000)
33      IMF Global Financial Stability Report, Chapter 6, P81 ‘Sustainable Finance’,
   https://www.imf.org/en/Topics/climate-change/green-finance (accessed 1 February
   2022).
34               https://www.pionline.com/esg/global-esg-data-driven-assets-hit-405-trillion
   (accessed 1 February 2022).
35                                  Food              and           Agriculture           Organization:
   https://www.fao.org/fileadmin/user_upload/lon/HLEF2050_Global_Agriculture.pdf
36 World Business Council for Sustainable Development ( 2010)
37 Holiday et al (202), Lehni (2000)
38 OECD (2014).
39 Transparency International, 2001 index.
40 Transparency International, 2020 index.
41 Transparency International, 2015 index.
42 Fadiman (1986).
43 OECD (2007).
44 Mauro (1997); Tanzi (1998).
45 Leite and Weiman (1999).
46 Besides the IMF papers cited earlier, a series of World Bank reports showing the
   negative effects of corruption are available at http://econ.worldbank.org/ (accessed 30
   May 2017).
47 Wei (1998).
48 United Nations : https://www.un.org/press/en/2018/sc13493.doc.htm
49 Kaufmann and Wei (1999).
50 Hess and Dunfee (2001).
51   Badaracco and Webb (1995).
52   http://www.transparency.org.
53   Pope (2000).
54   Nichols (1993).
55   UNICEF (2014).
56   ILO (2017).
57            See UNICEF (2014). See also the Child Labor Coalition at
   http://www.stopchildlabor.org.
58 ILAB 2018, https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/ILAB/ListofGoods.pdf (accessed 1
   February 2022).
59 Sane (2001).
60 Gravelle (2015).
61 Gravelle (2015) gives a list of tax havens on p. 3.
62 Contractor (2016).
63 106 OECD (2015)
64 European Commission (2016).
65 Hadjikhani and Ghauri (2006)
66 BSR (2003).
67 Donalson and Dundee (1999).
68 Cadbury (1987).
69 This definition is from Smith (2003). There are many definitions of CSR but this one
   is the most comprehensive in its simplicity
70 In 1891 Pope Leo XIII published the encyclical ‘Rerum Novarum’ in which he set up
   recommendations to firms about their rights and duties to society and particularly to
   their labour force.
71 New York Times Magazine, 13 September 1970.
72 Smith (2003: 2).
73 Badaracco and Webb (1995).
74 Katsoulakos et al. (2004).
75 Hewlett-Packard (2005).
76 Reinhart (1999).
77 Shell Corporation (2015).
78 BSR (2003).
79 This classification is from Jenkins (2001).
80 Those guidelines are available on the OECD website: http://www.oecd.org.
81 Jenkins (2001: 28).
82 Awaysheh et al. (2020)
83 United nation: https://news.un.org/en/story/2020/08/1070652
84 WHO (2020): https://www.who.int/d i r e c t o r - g e n e r a l / s p e e c h e s / d e t a
   i l / who-director-general-s-opening-remarks-at-the-media-briefing-on-covid-19-11-
   march-2020 (Accessed 22nd May 2021)
85       World Bank (2021): https://www.worldbank.org/en/publication/global-economic-
   prospects.(Accessed 22nd May 2021)
86 S&P: www.spglobal.com/marketintelligence/en/news-insights/blog/industries-most-
   and-least-impacted-by-covid19-from-a-probability-of-default-perspective       (Accessed
   22nd May 2021)
87 FDA (2020): https://www.fda.gov/n e w s - e v e n t s / p r e s s - a n n o u n c e m e
   n     t   s     /   fda-takes-key-action-fight-against-covid-19-issuing-emergency-use-
   authorization-first-covid-19#:~:text=Today%2C%20the%20U.S.%20
   Food%20and,years%20of%20age%20and%20 older. (Accessed 22nd May 2021)
88         EMA (2020): www.ema.europa.eu/en/news/ema-recommends-first-covid-19-
   vaccine-authori-sation-eu. (Accessed 22nd May 2021)
89                       UN      (2015):      https://www.un.org/ga/search/view_doc.asp?
   symbol=A/RES/70/1&Lang=E. (Accessed 22nd May 2021)
90    OECD (2020) : https://www.oecd.org/coronavirus/policy-responses/covid-19-and-
   the-low-carbon-transition-impacts-and-possible-policy-responses-749738fc/.
   (Accessed 22nd May 2021)
91         IAE: https://www.iea.org/articles/global-energy-review-co2-emissions-in-2020.
   (Accessed 22nd May 2021)
92                 IMF:    (2020):   https://www.imf.org/en/Topics/climate-change/green-
   recovery#Topic%201. (Accessed 22nd May 2021)
93 https://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/assets/downloads/The_circular_economy
   _solution_to_plastic_pollution_July_2020.pdf. (Accessed 22nd May 2021)
94        EU (2020): https://ec.europa.eu/environment/strategy/circular-economy-action-
   plan_en (Accessed 22nd May 2021)
95 Forbes (2021) : https://www.forbes.com/sites/oliverwilliams1/2021/04/29/welcome-
   to-the-post-covid-business-trip/?sh=299e81f51ae8 (Accessed 22nd May 2021)
96        OECD:https://www.oecd.org/coronavirus/en/themes/green-recovery (Accessed
   22nd May 2021)
97 The Economist Pocket World in Figures (2018).
98 According to Rodrigo Chemim in his book, Mãos Limpas e Lava Jato: A Corrupção
   Se Olha no Espelho (p. 94), the investigation led police to several companies that
   used it to launder money. When officers realized the size of the crimes and the profile
   of those involved, the petrol station Torre in Brasilia was under investigation. Most
   petrol stations offer car wash services, but the amount of money being laundered was
   much larger, hence the name chosen was Operação Lava Jato (or Operation Jet
   Wash). It later became Operation Car Wash.
99             Statista, https://www.statista.com/statistics/279719/revenue-of-petrobras/
   (accessed 16 June 2018).
100 Harris and Schipani (2020).
101        Minitério Público Federal – ‘Caso Lava Jato – Resultados’,
   http://www.mpf.mp.br/grandes-casos/lavajato/resultados (accessed 15 October
   2020).
102 KPMG, ‘Pesquisa Maturidade do Compliance no Brasil’, 4th edition, 2019.
103 Rocharun and Casey (2018).
104 Felter and Cara Labrador (2018).
105 Konchinski (2019).
106 Schipani (2019).
107 Schipani, Stott and Webber (2019).
108 Greenwald and Linhares (2019).
109 Harris (2020).
110 Onofre (2019).
111 Nugent (2020).
112 Fonseca (2018).
113 G1, ‘Brasil tem 5,3 milhões de casos confir-mados de Covid, com médias de casos
   e         mortes         em        estabilidade’,       21        October        2020,
   https://g1.globo.com/bemestar/coronavirus/noticia/2020/10/21/casos-e-mortes-por-
   coronavirus-no-brasil-em-21-de-outubro-segundo-con-sorcio-de-veiculos-de-
   imprensa.ghtml (accessed 22 October 2020).
114 The Americas, ‘An increasingly prickly partnership’, The Economist, 3 September
   2020.
115 Harris, Schipani and Long (2020).
116 Philips (2017).
117 Webinar to INSEAD, 30 November 2020.
118 Ibid.
119 Interview with Marcelo Zenkner, 24 August 2020.
120 Ibid.
121 Webinar for INSEAD, 30 November 2020.
122    https://www.enel.com.co/en/about-enel/enel-group.html (accessed 1 February
   2022).
123 Ibid.
124    https://ycharts.com/companies/ESOCF/market_cap (accessed 21 December
   2020).
125 https://fortune.com/change-the-world/2018/enel/ (accessed 1 February 2022).


References and further reading

Books and articles
Amnesty International (2004) The UN Human Rights Norms for Business: Towards Legal
  Accountability (London: Amnesty International Publications). http://www.amnesty.org
  (accessed
21 June 2017).
Anderson, T. L. and Leal, D. R. (1997) Enviro-Capitalists: Doing Good While Doing Well
  (Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield).
Awaysheh, A., Heron, R. A., Perry, T. and Wilson, J. I. (2020) ‘On the relation between
  corporate social
responsibility and financial performance’, Strategic Management Journal, 41 (6): 965–87.
Badaracco Jr., J. and Webb, A. P. (1995) ‘Business ethics: a view from the trenches’,
  California Management Review, 37 (2): 8–29.
Banerjee, N. (2001) ‘US lawsuit snares Exxon’, International Herald Tribune, 22 June.
Battilana, J. and Lee, M. (2014) ‘Advancing research on hybrid organizing – insights from
  the study of social enterprises’, The Academy of Management Annals, 8 (1): 397–441.
Bode, C. and Singh, J. (2018) ‘Taking a hit to save the world? Employee participation in a
  corporate social initiative’, Strategic Management Journal, 39 (4): 1003–30.
Bode, C., Rogan, M. and Singh, J. (2019) ‘Sustainable cross-sector collaboration:
  building a global platform for social impact’, AMD, 5: 396–414.
  https://doi.org/10.5465/amd.2018.0112 (accessed 1 February 2022).
Brammer, S., Branicki, L. and Linnenluecke, M. K. (2020) ‘COVID-19, societalization, and
  the future of business in society’, Academy of Management Perspectives, 34 ( (4):
  493–507.
BSR (Business for Social Responsibility) (2003) Overview of Business Ethics, BSR
  Brief, October.
Burbano, V. C. (2016) ‘Social responsibility messages
and worker wage requirements: field experimen-tal evidence from online labor
  marketplaces’, Organization Science, 27 (4): 1010–28.
Burns, J. L. and Spar, D. L. (2000) ‘Hitting the wall: Nike and international labor practices’,
  Harvard Business School Case 9-700-047.
Cadbury, A. (1987) ‘Ethical managers make their 69–73.
own rules’, Harvard Business Review, Sept–Oct:
CAIT Climate Data Explorer (2015) Washington, DC: World Resources Institute.
  http://cait.wri.org (accessed 1 February 2022).
CEO (Corporate Europe Observatory) (2017) ‘Sugarcane ethanol: a sweet solution for
  Europe’s fuel addiction?’. http://archive.corporateeurope.org/ethanolfueladdiction.html
  (accessed 15 June 2017).
Contractor, F. (2016) ‘Tax avoidance by multinational companies: methods, policies, and
  ethics’, Rutgers Business Review, 1 (1): 27–43.
Cramer, J. (2017), Corporate Social Responsibility and Globalisation: An Action Plan for
  Business (London: Routledge).
Crane, A. and Matten, D. (2020) ‘COVID-19 and the future of CSR research’, Journal of
  Management Studies, 58 (1): 280–4.
Crawford, R., Cadot, O. and Trap, D. (1999) ‘Soccer balls: made by children for children?
  Child labor in Pakistan’, INSEAD Case Study 12/1999-4865.
Cushman Jr., J. H. (1998) ‘Nike pledges to end child labor and apply U.S. rules abroad’,
  New York Times, 13 May.
De Jong, M. D. T., Harkink, K. M. and Barth, S. (2018) ‘Making green stuff? Effects of
  corporate greenwashing on consumers’, Journal of Business and Technical
  Communication, 32 (1): 77–112.
Delmas, M. A. and Burbano, V. C. (2011) ‘The drivers of greenwashing’, California
  Management Review, 54 (1): 64–87.
Donalson, T. and Dundee, T. W. (1999) ‘When ethics travel: the promise and perils of
  global business ethics’, California Management Review, 40 (4): 45–63.
Dunchin, F. and Lange, G.-M. (1994) Our Common Future (Oxford: Oxford University
  Press).
The Economist Pocket World in Figures (2018) (London: Profile Books).
EFMD (European Foundation for Management Development) (2005) Globally
  Responsible Leadership: A Call for Engagement (Brussels: EFMD).
Eldar, O. (2017) ‘The role of social enterprise and hybrid organizations’, Columbia
  Business Law Review.https://scholarship.law.duke.edu/faculty_scholarship/3637
  (accessed 24 May 2021).
European Commission (2008) EU Action Against Climate Change (Brussels: European
  Commission).
European Commission (2016) Anti Tax Avoidance Package (Brussels: European
  Commission). http://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/business/company-tax/anti-tax-
  avoidance-package_en (accessed 15 June 2017).
European Union (2016) EU Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) (Brussels: European
  Union Publication Office).
  https://ec.europa.eu/clima/sites/clima/files/factsheet_ets_en.pdf (accessed 15 June
  2017).
Fadiman, J. A. (1986) ‘A traveller’s guide to gifts and bribes’, Harvard Business Review,
  July–August: 4–12.
Falck, O. and Heblich, S. (2007) ‘Corporate social responsibility: doing well by doing
  good’, Business Horizons, 50 (3): 247–54.
Felter, C. and Cara Labrador, R. (2018) ‘Brazil’s Corruption Fallout’, Council on Foreign
  Relations, 11 January. www.cfr.org/backgrounder/brazils-corruption-fallout (accessed 1
  February 2022).
Fonseca, A. (2018) ‘Moro pede exoneração do cargo de juiz federal para ser ministro no
  novo governo’ G1, 16 November.
  https://g1.globo.com/pr/parana/noticia/2018/11/16/presidente-do-trf-4-assina-ex-
  oneracao-de-sergio-moro.ghtml (accessed 15 October 2020).
Food and Agriculture Organization (2009) How to Feed the World in 2050.
  http://www.fao.org/wsfs/forum2050/wsfs-forum/en/ (accessed 30 May 2017).
Friede, G., Busch, T. and Bassen, A. (2015) ‘ESG and financial performance: aggregated
  evidence from more than 2000 empirical studies’, Journal of Sustainable Finance and
  Investment, 5 (4): 210–33.
Ganson, B., He, T. L. and Henisz, W. J. (2021) ‘Business and peace: the impact of firm-
  stakeholder relational strategies on conflict risk’, Academy Of Management Review.
García-Feijoo, M., Eizaguirre, A. and Rica-Aspiunza, A. (2020) ‘Systematic review of
  sustainable-development-goal deployment in business schools’, Sustainability 12 (1):
  440.
Gatignon, A. and Capron, L. (2020) ‘The firm as an architect of polycentric governance:
  building open institutional infrastructure in emerging markets’, Strategic Management
  Journal: 1– 38. https://doi.org/10.1002/Smj.3124 (accessed 1 February 2022).
Gravelle, J. (2015) Tax Havens: International Tax Avoidance and Evasion, Congressional
  Research Service Report, R40623, January.
Greenwald, G. and Linhares, J. F. (2019) ‘Russo defe-riu uma busca que não foi pedida
  por ninguém’, The Intercept, 19 October.
Hadjikhani, A. and Ghauri, P. (2006) ‘Multinational enterprises and their lobbying activities
  in the European Union’, in L. Oxelheim (ed.), Institutional
Transparency for Economic Growth in Europe (Oxford: Elsevier), 371–98.
Harris, B. (2020) ‘Investigators fear the end in near for Brazil’s Lava Jato probe’, Financial
  Times, 16 August.
Harris, B. and Schipani, A. (2020) ‘Sergio Moro, the Brazilian “Judge Dread” who brings
  down presi-dents’, Financial Times, 8 May.
Harris, B., Schipani, A. and Long, G. (2020) ‘Coronavirus corruption cases spread across
  Latin America’, Financial Times, 7 July.
He, H. and Harris, L. (2020) ‘The impact of Covid-19 pandemic on corporate social
  responsibility and marketing philosophy’, Journal of Business Research, 116: 176–82.
Hennebel, L. (2006) ‘L’affaire Total-Unocal en Birmanie jugée en Europe et aux Etats
  Unis’, CRIDHO Working Paper 2006/09.
  http://cridho.uclouvain.be/documents/Working.Papers/CRIDHO.WP.2006.09.pdf
  (accessed 6 July 2017).
Hess, D. and Dunfee, T. (2001) ‘Fighting corruption: a principled approach’, Wharton
  School Working Paper.
Hewlett-Packard (2005) 2005 HP Global Citizenship Report.
  http://www8.hp.com/us/en/pdf/hp2005gcreport_tcm_245_1368286.pdf (accessed 15
  June 2017).
Holliday, C., Schmidheiny, S. and Watts, P. (2002) Walking the Talk: The Business Case
  for Sustainable Development (Sheffield: Greenleaf Publishing).
Husted, B. (2013) ‘Global environmental and social strategy’, Global Strategy Journal, 3:
  195–7.
ILO (International Labour Organization) (2017) Facts on Child Labour 2010 (Geneva:
  ILO).
Jenkins, R. (2001) Corporate Codes of Conduct Self-Regulation in a Global Economy,
  United Nations Research Institute for Social Development, Technology and Society
  Programme Paper no. 2.
Johnsson-Latham, G. (2007) ‘A study on gender equality as a prerequisite for sustainable
  development’, Report to the Environment Advisory Council, Sweden.
Katsoulakos, P. et al. (2004) A Historic Perspective of the CSR Movement, White Paper
  SFAID, Athens University, December.
Kaufmann, D. and Wei, S. (1999) ‘Does “grease money” speed up the wheels of
   commerce?’, National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper No. w7093,
   April.
Kolk, A. (2016) ‘The social responsibility of international business: from ethics and the
   environment to CSR and sustainable development’, Journal of World Business, 51 (1):
   23–34.
Kolk, A., van Tulder, R. and Welters, C. (1999) ‘International codes of conduct and
   corporate social responsibility: can transnational corporations regulate themselves?’,
   Transnational Corporations, 8 (1): 143–80.
Konchinski, V. (2109) ‘Substituto de Moro, reduz velocidade de julgamentos da Lava Jato
   no Paraná’ UOL, 14 September. https://noticias.uol.com.br/politica/ultimas-
   noticias/2019/09/14/saida-de-moro-reduz-velocidade-de-julgamentos-da-lava-jato-no-
   pr.htm (accessed 11 June 2020).
Kumar, A., Connell, J. and Bhattacharyya, A. (2020) ‘Co-opetition for corporate social
   responsibility and sustainability: drivers and success factors’, Sustainability
   Accounting, Management and Policy Journal.
   https://www.researchgate.net/publication/347728567_Co-
   opetition_for_corporate_social_responsibility_and_sustainability_drivers_and_success
   _factors (accessed 24 May 2021).
Lehni, M. (2000) Eco-efficiency: Creating More Value with Less Impact (Geneva: World
   Business Council for Sustainable Development).
Leite, C. and Weiman, J. (1999) ‘Does Mother
Nature corrupt natural resources? Corruption and economic growth’, IMF Working Paper,
   WP/99/85, July.
Li, C. and Reuer, J. J. (2020) ‘The impact of corruption on market reactions to
   international strategic alliances’, Journal of International Business Studies: 1–16.
Mauro, P. (1997) Why Worry About Corruption?, Economic Issues Series, 6
   (Washington, DC: IMF).
Monaghan, P. (2013) ‘Corporate social responsibility: how the movement has evolved
   since the 90s’, Guardian, 11 May.
Monteiro, L. F. and Albuquerque, T. (2018) Doing Business in Brazil after Operation Car
   Wash (A), INSEAD Case study. https://publishing.insead.edu/case/car-wash
   (accessed 1 February 2022).
Monteiro, L. F. and Kertesz, S. (2021) Doing Business in Brazil after Operation Car Wash
   (B), INSEAD Case study. https://publishing.insead.edu/case/doing-business-brazil-
   after-operation-car-wash-b (accessed 1 February 2022).
Monteiro, L. F. and Benavente J.M.G. (2019), Enel’s Innovability: Global Open Innovation
   and Sustainability, INSEAD Case Study. https://publishing.insead.edu/case/enel.
Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency (PBL) (2020), ‘Trends in mondiale
   uitstoot van CO2 en alle broeikasgassen: 2020 rapport’.
   https://www.pbl.nl/publicaties/trends-in-mondiale-uitstoot-van-co2-en-alle-
   broeikasgassen-2020-rapport (accessed 1 February 2022).
Nichols, M. (1993) ‘Third-world families at work: child labor or child care?’, Harvard
   Business Review, 71 (1): 12–23.
Nugent, C. (2020) ‘I didn’t enter the government to serve a Master. Brazil’s Star Justice
   Minister on His Resignation and Clash With President Bolsonaro’, Time Magazine, 21
   May.
Odziemkowska, K. and Henisz, W. (2020) ‘Webs of influence: secondary stakeholder
   actions and cross-national corporate social performance’, Organization Science, 32
   (1): 233–55.
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (2000) No Longer
  Business as Usual (Paris: OECD).
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (2001) Sustainable
  Development (Paris: OECD).
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (2007) Integrity in
  Public Procurement (Paris: OECD).
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (2008) Enhancing
  Integrity in Public Procurement: A Checklist (Paris: OECD).
  http://www.oecd.org/gov/41760991.pdf (accessed 30 May 2017).
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (2009)
  Recommendation of the Council for Further Combating Bribery of Foreign Public
  Officials in International Business Transactions, Working Group on Bribery in
  International Business Transactions (Paris: OECD). http://www.oecd.org/daf/anti-
  bribery/44176910.pdf (accessed 30 May 2017).
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (2014) The
  Rationale for Fighting Corruption, CleanGovBiz, Background briefing (Paris: OECD).
  https://www.oecd.org/cleangovbiz/49693613.pdf (accessed 30 May 2017).
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (2015) Tax
  Transparency 2015: Report on Progress, The Global Forum on Transparency and
  Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes 2015.
  https://www.oecd.org/tax/transparency/global-forum-annual-report-2015.pdf (accessed
  31 May 2017).
Onofre, R. (2019) ‘Deputados retiram prisão em 2ª instância de pacote de Moro’, O
  Estados de S.Paulo, 9 July. https://politica.estadao.com.br/noticias/geral,grupo-de-
  trabalho-da-camara-rejeita-proposta-de-prisao-apos-condenacao-em-2-instan-
  cia,70002914370 (accessed 19 October 2020).
Philips, D. (2017) ‘Car Wash Launches Revolution in Transparency and Compliance’,
  Financial Times, 15 May 2017. https://www.ft.com/content/885536a6-30ae-11e7-9555-
  23ef563ecf9a (accessed 1 February 2022).
Plas, G. and Erdmenger, C. (2000) Green Purchasing Good Practice Guide, An ICLEI
  ‘Policy and Practice’ Publication (Freiburg: ICLEI).
Pope, J. (2000) Confronting Corruption: The Elements of a National Integrity System
  (London: Transparency International).
Rangan, S. (ed.) (2015) Performance and Progress: Essays on Capitalism, Business,
  and Society (Oxford: Oxford University Press).
Reinhart, F. L. (1999) Down to Earth: Applying Business Principles to Environmental
  Management (Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press).
Rocharun, M. and Casey, N. (2018) ‘Peru’s president offers resignation over vote-buying
  scandal’, The New York Times, 21 March.
  www.nytimes.com/2018/03/21/world/americas/peru-kuczyn-ski-resigns.html
  (accessed 1 February 2022).
Sane, P. (2001) Why Human Rights Should Matter, Earth Times News, 8 January.
  https://www.globalpolicy.org/component/content/article/225/32149.html (accessed 21
  June 2017).
Schipani, A. (2019) ‘Sergio Moro takes his crusade inside Brazil’s halls of power’,
  Financial Times, 14 January.
Schipani, A., Stott, M. and Webber, J. (2019) ‘Latin America: Brazil’s anti-corruption drive
  faces a backlash’, Financial Times, 11 August.
Schütte, H. (1986) Peter Clausen, INSEAD Case Study.
Shell Corporation (2015) Sustainable Reporting and Performance.
  http://www.shell.com/sustainability/sustainability-reporting-and-performance-data.html
  (accessed 31 May 2017).
Smith, C. (2003) ‘Corporate social responsibility: whether or how?’, California
  Management Review, 45 (4): 1–25.
Soubbotina, T. P. (2004) Beyond Economic Growth: An Introduction to Sustainable
  Development, WBI Learning Resources Series (Washington, DC: World Bank).
Stevens, C. E. and Newenham-Kahindi, A. (2021) ‘Avoid, acquiesce … or engage? New
  insights from sub-Saharan Africa on MNE strategies for managing corruption’,
  Strategic Management Journal, 42 (2): 273–301.
Tanzi, V. (1998) ‘Corruption around the world: causes, consequences, scope and cure’,
  International Monetary Fund Staff Paper, 559.
Tashman, P., Marano, V. and Kostova, T. (2019) ‘Walking the walk or talking the talk?
  Corporate social responsibility decoupling in emerging market multinationals’, Journal
  of International Business Studies, 50 (2): 153–71.
Transparency International (various years) Corruption Perceptions Index.
  http://www.transparency.org/research/cpi/overview (accessed 26 April 2021).
UNEP (United Nations Environment Programme) (2011) Towards a Green Economy:
  Pathways to Sustainable Development and Poverty Eradication (Nairobi: UNEP).
  https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/index.php?
  page=view&type=400&nr=126&menu=35 (accessed 8 February 2022).
UNFCC (United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) (2004) The First
  Ten Years (Bonn: UNFCCC).
  http://unfccc.int/resource/docs/publications/first_ten_years_en.pdf (accessed 1
  February 2022).
UNICEF (2014) Child Labour and UNICEF in Action: Children at the Centre (New York:
  UNICEF).
United Nation Global Compact (2011) Business Against Corruption – A Framework for
  Action. https://www.unglobalcompact.org/library/162 (accessed 1 February 2022).
United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (1992) Rio Declaration on
  Environment and Development. http://www.unesco.org/education/pdf/RIO_E.PDF
  (accessed 15 June 2017).
United Nations (2011) Cities and Climate Change: Global Report on Human Settlements
  2011 – Policy Directions (Nairobi: United Nations Human Settlements Programme).
  http://unhabitat.org/books/cities-and-climate-change-global-report-on-human-
  settlements-2011-abridged/ (accessed 30 May 2017).
United Nations (2015) Transforming our World: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
  Development. https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/post2015/transfor-
  mingourworld/publication (accessed 1 February 2022).
United Nations (2020) The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2020.
  https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/report/2020/ (accessed 1 February 2022).
United Nations World Commission on Environment and Development (1987) Our
  Common Future, World Commission on Environment and Development [‘the
  Brundtland Report’] (London: Oxford University Press).
United States Environmental Agency (2021) EPA’s Climate Change Indicators in the
  United States. https://www.epa.gov/climate-indicators (accessed 26 April 2021).
US Department of Labor (2018) Bureau of International Labor Affairs ‘2018 List Of Goods
  Produced By Child Labor Or Forced Labor’.
  https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/ILAB/ListofGoods.pdf (accessed 1 February
  2022).
Van Tulder, R. and Kolk, A. (2001) ‘Multinationality and corporate ethics: codes of conduct
  in the sporting goods industry’, Journal of International Business Studies, 32 (2): 267–
  83.
Wei, S. (1998) ‘Corruption in economic development: beneficial grease, minor annoyance
  or major obstacle?’, Harvard University and National Bureau of Economic Research
  Working Paper.
Wheeler, D., Retchman, R., Heike, F. and Boele, R. (2001a) ‘Shell Nigeria and the Ogoni.
  A study in unsustainable development: the story of Shell Nigeria and the Ogoni people:
  conflict and prospects for resolution’, Sustainable Development, 9: 74–86.
Wheeler, D., Retchman, R., Heike, F. and Boele, R. (2001b) ‘Shell Nigeria and the Ogoni.
  A study in unsustainable development: corporate social responsibility and stakeholder
  management versus a rights-based approach to sustainable development’,
  Sustainable Development, 9: 121–35.
Wheeler. D., Retchman, R., Heike, F. and Boele, R. (2001c) ‘Shell Nigeria and the Ogoni.
  A study in unsustainable development: the story of Shell Nigeria and the Ogoni people:
  analysis and implications of Royal Dutch Shell Group’s strategy’, Sustainable
  Development, 9: 177–98.
World Bank (2012) Inclusive Green Growth: The Pathway to Sustainable Development
  (Washington, DC: World Bank).
World Business Council for Sustainable Development (2010) Vision 2050.
  https://www.wbcsd.org/Overview/About-us/Vision-2050-Time-to-Transform (accessed
  30 May 2017).
World Resources Institute (2015) CAIT Climate Data Explorer (Washington, DC: World
  Resources Institute). http://cait.wri.org (accessed 30 May 2017).
WWF International and Zoological Society of London (2014) Living Planet Report 2014:
  Species and Spaces, People and Places.
  https://www.wwf.or.jp/activities/lib/lpr/WWF_LPR_2014.pdf (accessed 30 May 2017).
Xavier, C. V., Pitta, F. T. and Mendonça, M. L. (2011) ‘Social and environmental impacts of
  sugarcane production in Brazil’, Transnational Institute. www.tni.org/en/sugarcane-
  brazil (accessed 31 May 2017).
Yandle, B. (1999) ‘Enviro-capitalists: doing good while doing well’, in T. A. Anderson and
  D. R. Leal (eds), Capitalism and Environmentalism Go Hand (Irvington-on-Hudson, NY:
  The Freeman Foundation for Economic Education).


Journals
Journal of World Business: https://www.journals.elsevier.com/journal-of-world-business
Sustainability: https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sustainability
Sustainable Development: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/10991719
Journal of International Business Studies: https://www.palgrave.com/gp/journal/41267
Journal of Sustainable Development (JSD): http://www.ccsenet.org/journal/index.php/jsd
Part II

Global strategies

Chapter 5 Designing a global strategy | Chapter 5 defines the various
approaches to business strategy and its components and how these
apply to global businesses. It covers the formulation of objectives, the
choice of countries and regions, the competitive positioning of
products and services, the design of and investment in a global
business system to create and sustain global competitive advantages
and the choice of a global organization design. It will also explore the
processes by which firms globalize, making a distinction between
large multinational firms, small and medium-sized enterprises and
‘born global’ start-ups. The chapter will also discuss the measurement
of corporate globalization.

Chapter 6 Assessing countries’ attractiveness | Chapter 6 looks at
the first step in the decision to develop globally – the selection of
countries in which to invest. It presents the various steps in the
analysis of opportunities and risks. This covers such aspects as
country risk analysis, business system analysis, industry and
competitive analysis, market opportunities and host government
incentives.

Chapter 7 Entry strategies | Chapter 7 discusses the various decision
choices in entering a country market. It considers issues of timing and
the various forms of entry, ranging from wholly owned subsidiaries to
joint ventures, licensing or other types of franchising, distributors’
agreements or a representative office, each form being analysed in
terms of its advantages and disadvantages.

Chapter 8 Global mergers, acquisitions and strategic alliances |
Chapter 8 focuses on the many ways of combining capabilities
between two or more firms in order to increase and obtain the
competitive advantages needed in the global marketplace. The
chapter will look first at mergers and acquisitions (M&As) as a means
of achieving economies of scale and scope. It offers an analysis of
the various phases of global M&As, from pre-acquisition, to valuation
and post-acquisition. Then it turns the reader’s attention to the
various forms of strategic partnerships linking two or several
independent firms. Those partnerships can be global strategic
alliances, local joint ventures or simply any form of long-term
contract. A framework for the analysis of strategic alliances and
practical recommendations for their implementation are then given.
Chapter 5

Designing a global strategy




  At the end of this chapter you will be able to:

  •   Identify a global strategy by breaking down all its elements
  •   Contribute meaningfully to the formulation of a global strategy
  •   Describe a global business system
  •     Identify the sources of competitive advantages in a given
      company



Introduction
The globalization of industries discussed in Chapter 1 was led by a
few pioneering companies that identified early on the opportunities
offered by designing and implementing global strategies. The majority
of those companies have developed their global presence
progressively while some other ‘born global’ firms have globalized very
soon after their creation. In this chapter, a framework for the
formulation of global strategies is proposed, based on the experience
of leading global companies. The chapter starts by defining what
business strategy is about and how it applies to global companies. It
uses the example of how Samsung Electronics has developed its
global strategy. The framework for the strategy consists of:

•      Global ambition: stating the long-term objectives of the
  corporation as well as the relative importance of the regions in its
  global footprint.
•   Global positioning: choice of countries, customer segments and
  value proposition.
•    Global business system: investment in resources, assets and
  competence to create a global value chain and global capabilities,
  either directly or through alliances and acquisitions.
• Global organization: global structure, processes, coordination and
  human resources (HR) management.

  This chapter details all of these elements and provides some tools:
•    The Transnational Index, the Global Revenue Index and the
  Global Capabilities Index, which measure the extent to which a
  company can be considered a global or a regional player
•       The classification of countries according to their strategic
    importance (key countries, emerging countries, platform countries,
    marketing countries)
•      The definition of global positioning according to the scope of
    markets, value proposition and competitive approach based on cost
    leadership or differentiation
•   Business system design
•   Competitive advantages analysis
•   Sustainability of competitive advantages.

The chapter then describes three stages in the process of
globalization: export, multinational and global. It ends by sketching the
various forms of organizational structures found among multinational
and global firms.
A company business strategy
A company business strategy is a set of fundamental choices which
defines its long-term objectives, its value proposition to the market,
how it intends to build and sustain a competitive business system and
how it organizes itself. (See Insert 5.1 for a more detailed definition of
strategy.)


  Insert 5.1 Origin, content, purpose and
  drivers of strategy
  Strategy (from the Greek, stratos (an army) and agein (to lead))
  has traditionally been a military art. The ancient Chinese military
  theorist, Sun Tzu (c. 500 BCE) stated that ‘the supreme art of
  war is to subdue the enemy without fighting’.

  Strategy as an art of war was transferred into a business context
  in the early 1960s (Ansoff 1965). This does not mean that there
  was no ‘strategy’ behind business decisions before this; there
  were just no formal theories of business strategy.

  There are several schools of thought about what business
  strategy is, but all schools recognize that business strategy has
  to do with choice and investments. A business strategy will
  generally cover the following:

  •   Ambition: Choice of long-term objectives for the business.
  •    Positioning: Choice of products and customer segments and
      of a value proposition to customers.
  •    Capability building: Choice of investments in order to create
      a business system that is able to deliver value competitively.
  •     Organization: Choice of people, structures, processes and
      systems.
The concept of strategy may apply at various levels in a
corporation (see Table 5.1). The most frequent distinctions are:

•       Business strategy (also called competitive strategy) is
    applied at the level of a business operating in a particular
    industry segment. It defines the way the business wants, and
    is able, to compete in its segment.
•     If the market in which the firm operates is global, its business
    strategy will be a global business strategy that defines its
    long-term objectives and selects its value proposition for the
    world market. A global business strategy will also build,
    integrate and coordinate its business system to gain and
    sustain a global competitive advantage, and put in place an
    organizational system to manage its operations worldwide.
•      Corporate strategy is applied at the level of a company
    engaged in different business segments: the multi-business
    corporation. It essentially defines the portfolio of businesses in
    which the corporation wants to operate and the resource
    allocation pattern among those businesses.
•     If the corporation operates globally, the corporate strategy
    will be a global corporate strategy which will integrate the
    various global strategies of the different businesses in the
    corporate portfolio.

Purpose and drivers of strategy

The purpose of business strategy is to build and sustain a
competitive business system in selected markets leading to
economic value creation. Economic value is created when the
revenues generated by the business is equal to or larger than the
total cost of doing business (see Figure 5.1).

Economic value is driven by two major forces:
   •     the macro structural characteristics of the industry in which
       the company operates (Porter 1980);
   •    the ability to build and sustain competitive advantages (Porter
       1985).

   Hence, the key choices of strategy are firstly to decide where the
   company will compete and secondly to invest in capabilities
   leading to competitive advantages.


Table 5.1 Business, corporate and global strategy
Figure 5.1 The purpose of strategy
Source: Authors’ own, see Besanko et al. (2007) for further discussion.

   A business strategy is global when a company competes in key
markets across the world and when its business system consists of
integrated and coordinated activities across borders.
   The case of Samsung Electronics illustrates how their global
strategy has been developed over time.


EXAMPLE 5.1 Samsung Electronics

The Samsung Group is one of the leading Korean conglomerates
(known as chaebol). It was created in 1938 by its founder and first
chairman Byung-Chull Lee as a trading firm which then diversified into
many other activities after the Korean War ended in 1953. Samsung
Electronics is the leading subsidiary of the Samsung Group. In 2014,
with consolidated sales of $216 billion and 286,000 employees in
eighty counties, it accounted for 70 per cent of the turnover of the
group.
  Created in 1969, Samsung Electronics initially focused production
on electronic components, transistors, integrated circuits and
microchips. Then it developed products that incorporated those
components, such as TV sets and microwave ovens, for its domestic
market. Because of the already-established trading links and
capabilities of the wider Samsung Corporation, Samsung Electronics
was able to engage in international business very early in its life. The
earliest international development for Samsung Electronics was in
exporting electronic components: TV sets followed by microwave
ovens on an original equipment manufacturer (OEM) basis in the late
1970s. Early in the 1990s the company started to market its products
internationally under its own brand name. By the late 1980s/early
1990s, assembly plants had been set up in Thailand, Indonesia and
Malaysia, followed by China, Brazil and Vietnam. Three factories
opened in 1994 in Texas, USA, and in 1995 the company opened
regional headquarters in the USA, Germany, Singapore and China.
Subsequently, R&D centres were set up in the USA, Russia, India,
Japan, China, Israel, Poland and Brazil. The global strategy was
formalized in the mid-1990s and was based on ‘a dedication to making
world-class products, providing customer satisfaction and being a
good corporate citizen, all under the vision of quality first’. After the
Asian financial crisis of 1997, the Samsung Group reduced the number
of its businesses and divested from some activities such as car
manufacturing in order to focus on more promising sectors such as
electronics. In the late 1990s, the company launched a line of mobile
telephones that eventually led to entry into the smartphone and tablet
markets and to direct (and successful) competition with Apple’s
iPhones and iPads. By 2015, Samsung Electronics had become the
world leader in a large number of products, including LCD TV panels,
smartphones and DRAM, relying on a network of eleven regional
headquarters, thirty-seven production centres, thirty-four research
centres and fifty-six local sales organizations.

Analysis of Samsung Electronics’ global strategy

Created before the Second World War, when Korea was under
Japanese rule, Samsung was a trading company similar to the
Japanese Sogo Shosha.1 It was only after the Korean War that it
became a chaebol, a diversified group that started to produce and
export products: insurance in 1958, electronics in 1969, heavy industry
in 1976, aerospace and chemicals in 1979, IT in 1985, plus many
others over time. Samsung Electronics was only one of several
companies within the Samsung Group. The ambition of Samsung
Electronics shifted from being an exporter to becoming a multinational
firm with assembly factories scattered across Asia, Europe and
America. After the 1997 Asian crisis, the focus was to become a
global player, primarily – but not exclusively – in mobile telephony.
   The positioning of Samsung Electronics is to offer world-class
quality, standardized products, based on innovation and relying on
thirty-four research and development centres. Since its founding,
Samsung has become a global brand (see Figure 5.2).




Figure 5.2 Global development of Samsung Electronics

  A global integrated network of factories, R&D centres and sales
organizations was set up over time while the company concentrated
on limited leading product lines.
  Based on the Samsung example, it is now possible to describe
more formally the components of a global strategy.
Framework for a global strategy
A global strategy is made up of four major components (see Figure
5.3):

•   Global strategic ambition
•   Strategic global positioning
•   Global business system
•   Global organization.




Figure 5.3 Global strategy framework


Global ambition

The global strategic ambition expresses the role a company wants to
play in the world marketplace. It defines two types of perspective: the
rationale for globalization and the scope of the global presence.

Rationale for globalization:
market/resource/capability-seeking objectives
According to John Dunning,2 global expansion can be driven by three
kinds of motive: market-seeking, resource-seeking and capability-
seeking.

•     Market-seeking objectives relate to the pursuit of sales expansion
    in international territories. This can be achieved by exports or local
    operational subsidiaries.
•     Resource-seeking objectives relate to accessing natural and
  human resources in international territories in order to use those
  resources for global competitiveness. This is achieved by
  contractual sourcing, direct exploitation of mining or agriculture, or
  by setting up offshore production centres.
• Capability-seeking objectives are aimed at capturing innovative or
  logistical capabilities that international territories may offer. This can
  be achieved by setting up local R&D centres, logistic or hub
  centres, research alliances or intelligence offices.

Scope of the global presence
The scope of the global presence expresses how the company views
the future distribution of its sales and assets in key regional clusters
worldwide, and can be formulated into four types of role:

•   Global player
•   Regional player
•   Global exporter
•   Global sourcer.

  A company whose ambition is to be a global player aspires to
establish a sustainable competitive position in the key markets of the
world and to build an integrated business system of designs spread
over those key markets. Sony and Samsung Electronics fit such a
description, as would Nestlé, Unilever, Ericsson, Nokia, Siemens,
Shell, Canon, Procter & Gamble, Toyota and HSBC.
   A regional player aims to capture a strong competitive advantage
in one of the key regions of the world – North America, Europe or
Asia – and to remain a marginal or relatively weak competitor in the
other parts. Companies such as Peugeot, Shiseido or Barclays would
be examples of such an ambition. The distinction between a global
player and a regional player is more about the relative importance of
each major region of the world in the company’s portfolio, rather than
the stated ambition of the company in its external communications.
Many companies assert that they are ‘global’, when their accounts
reflect a strong concentration of their sales to one region.3 However,
this situation may change if the company has a real ambition to
become a global player that is supported by the appropriate
investment. Renault, for instance, a traditional European player, has
acquired controlling positions in Nissan, Samsung automobiles,
Mitsubishi and Avtovaz, transforming the company into a European,
Asian and North American player thanks to Nissan’s operations in the
USA.
   A global exporter is a company whose role is to sell in the key
markets of the world products manufactured or services operated in
its home country, and that builds foreign operations only to support the
export drive. The major aerospace or defence companies such as
Boeing, Airbus and Raytheon can be classified in this category despite
the fact that they have some supporting assets (maintenance, sales
offices, etc.) outside their home region.
   A global sourcer is a company that procures a large fraction of its
product components from factories located outside its base market
and concentrates its sales in its domestic market. In such a case the
ambition would hardly qualify as global. However, many managerial
issues of integration and coordination of activities, such as in-house
factories or long-term subcontracting, would be quite similar to those
that a global company would have to face.
   In order to assess the degree of global ambition exhibited by
companies, we will look at the distribution of their sales, assets and
personnel.
   In 2019, the world economy produced $87,700 billion worth of
goods and services: 33 per cent in America (North and South), 35 per
cent in Asia and Oceania, 26 per cent in Europe and 6 per cent in
Africa. The global GDP was expected to exceed $100 trillion in 2022.
   In certain industries the distribution of markets can differ from the
distribution of GDP, and growth differentials will make the future
distribution of world markets different from what it is today. Table 5.2
gives a distribution of world markets by regions.
Table 5.2 Distribution of the world market by regions in selected industries, 2019 (as a
percentage of US$ value)




Source: Authors’ own, based on data from various sources.

  A pure, global company should ideally exhibit three major
characteristics:

1    The distribution of its sales would be proportional to the
    distribution of markets in its industry. For instance, Sony’s
    distribution of sales is 28 per cent in North America, 23 per cent in
    Europe and 39 per cent in Asia, which closely replicates the
    percentage distribution of consumer electronic industry markets (23
    per cent in North America, 36 per cent in Europe and 38 per cent in
    Asia).
2  The distribution of its assets and workforce would be proportional
  to the distribution of markets in its industry.
3 It would manage its activities in an integrated and coordinated way
  across the globe.

   Obviously, this may not apply to all industries, given that no two
industries have the same degree of global pressure towards
globalization, as has been discussed in Chapter 1. In a global industry
such as the tyre industry, where the distribution of the market is 31
per cent in North America, 30 per cent in Europe, 35 per cent in Asia
and 4 per cent in the rest of the world, the distribution of revenues of
the five major players differs substantially from the industry
distribution, as shown in Table 5.3.
Table 5.3 Distribution of markets and revenues in tyres, 2019 (%)




Source: Companies’ annual reports.

The globalization indices
There are two useful globalization indices for evaluating the extent to
which a company has followed a global ambition. Online Appendix 5.1
gives a technical explanation of the measurement of those indices.

•      The Transnational Index (TNI), used by the United Nations
    Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), is a composite
    ratio of the proportion of activities outside the home country of a
    multinational firm.




Figure 5.4 A mapping of several global companies using the TNI index

•        The Global Revenue Index (GRI) represents a company’s
    distribution of sales in the major world regions as a percentage of
    the industry distribution of demand in the same regions.4 If the
    world market in an industry is divided in the proportion of 30 per
    cent in North America, 30 per cent in Europe, 30 per cent in Asia
    and 10 per cent in the rest of the world, the GRI will compare the
    actual distribution of sales of a company in those four major regions
    with sales distribution for the industry as a whole. A company with a
    low GRI is more concentrated in one region, while a company with
    a high GRI will have a distribution of sales similar to the distribution
    of the global demand in that industry.
•     The Global Capability Index (GCI) represents the distribution of
    assets or personnel in a similar way to the GRI. Companies which
    rely heavily on external sourcing will have a low GCI score. This is
    because the company cannot deploy resources and capabilities at
    will, but relies on external parties to supply the capability. This
    reliance on external parties also means that the company can face
    potential problems such as product/service unavailability, time
    delays in delivery or price pressure from its overseas suppliers.

By combining the GCI and the GRI in one chart, we obtain a mapping
of the global ambition of players (Figure 5.5).




Figure 5.5 Mapping of global ambition

  A company low in both GRI and GCI would be a regional player, a
company low in GRI and high in GCI would be a global operator, a
company low in GCI and high in GRI would be a global exporter, while
a company high in both dimensions would be a global player and a
company with an average score in both dimensions would be a
regional player.
  Figure 5.6 shows the mapping of four leading companies: Michelin in
the tyre industry, Airbus in the aircraft industry, Walmart in retailing
and Nestlé in foods. Michelin and Nestlé can be considered as global
players while Walmart is positioned as a regional player and Airbus as
a global exporter.




Figure 5.6 Comparative mapping of global ambition: comparison of Walmart (retailing),
Michelin (tyres), Airbus (aircraft), Nestlé (foods)
Note: The size of the bubbles is proportional to total sales in 2014 .
Source: Authors’ own construction using data from the companies’ websites.

   None of these indices is perfect. The UNCTAD index favours
companies from smaller exporting countries (Switzerland, for instance)
to the detriment of corporations from large countries (the USA, for
instance). For their part, the GRI and GCI still assign a global score to
companies that concentrate their operations in one region or country.
For instance, a US company having 100 per cent of its sales in the
USA would still obtain a global score, which would be equivalent to the
relative size of the US presence in the world.

Dynamic utilization of the global indices
As part of the strategy formulation process, companies can use the
global indices to analyse their position and set their global ambition.
  To illustrate, we will take the example of Whirlpool and the global
appliance industry.


EXAMPLE 5.2 Whirlpool

In 1980 Whirlpool was essentially a regional operator. Its sales and
assets were concentrated in the United States. Its GRI was 0.35 and
its GCI 0.40. The white goods industry (refrigerators, washers,
cookers) was at that time primarily a regional industry. For instance,
American refrigerators tended to be too big to fit easily in European or
Japanese homes. However, the industry gradually moved towards
globalization because of the huge economies of scale to be gained in
manufacturing components, branding and R&D. The Swedish
company, Electrolux, moved aggressively within Europe to become a
pan-European company and invested in the United States and Asia to
become a global player. The Whirlpool management realized that the
company’s future would be at stake if it did not follow a globalization
path. The first step of this process was an alliance with the Philips
appliance business, which became an acquisition. From a single
regional player, Whirlpool moved into the position of a dual regional
player with a strong delocalization of its factories, particularly in Latin
America. Then, in the early 1990s, Whirlpool realized that the Asia
Pacific region was going to represent 40 per cent of world sales for
refrigerators, washers and cookers. It set a target of gaining a
significant position in Asia. By the year 2010, Whirlpool had become a
global player but retreated from China then lowering its Global GRI by
2019 (see Figure 5.7).
Figure 5.7 The evolution of Whirlpool’s globalization (measured by GRI) Note: Bubbles are
proportional to sales.
Source: Authors’ own using data from www.whirlpool.com.



Global positioning

Global positioning consists of two types of choice:

•    First, the choice of countries in which the company wants to
  compete and the role that those countries play in the global
  portfolio.
•   Second, the definition of the various value propositions for the
  products or services of the company, corresponding to the type of
  segments and countries in which the company wants to compete.

Choice of countries
Depending on the industry, countries differ in the opportunities they
offer to companies for their strategic development. Some countries,
given their size, growth or the quality of their human, natural or
locational resources, are critical for companies’ long-term
competitiveness. Those countries are classed as key countries. Not
to be present in these countries is a serious handicap for companies
who want to be global players. As mentioned earlier, Europe, North
America and Asia are the three regional clusters that a global player
would consider, but within those clusters some countries are more
important than others, and should be given priority. In Asia, for
instance, in the automotive sector, Japan, Korea and China can be
considered as key. In Europe, Germany and, to a certain extent, the
UK and France are key countries. In the pulp and paper industry, in
which natural resources are a key component of competitive
advantage, countries like Indonesia can be considered as key, while
California (Silicon Valley) would be key for internet players.
   The second category of countries is countries that exhibit a high
growth rate, making them strategically attractive in the near future.
These are the emerging countries (as defined in Chapter 2). Today
China, India, Brazil and Poland would generally qualify for that
definition but, again, it is difficult to generalize since opportunities are
industry-specific.
   The platform countries constitute a third category. These are the
countries that, because of locational advantage, good logistical,
financial, regulatory and legal infrastructure or qualified personnel, can
serve as a ‘hub’ for setting up regional centres, that is, global factories
that are ‘platforms’ for further development. Singapore, Hong Kong,
Ireland and Taiwan are examples of such countries. For example,
Carrefour, the French hypermarket giant, has used Taiwan as a
platform for strategic development in Asia.
   A fourth category would be marketing countries, where the
market is attractive without being as strategically critical as the key
countries. Countries such as Vietnam in Asia, Tunisia in North Africa or
Colombia in Latin America may not be considered as key or emerging
for an automobile company on industrial or investment grounds, but
may be interesting from the marketing point of view.
   The type of presence suitable for such countries should be
assessed on its own merits, depending on the political, economic and
business contexts. Countries with a strong resource base but limited
market prospects would be classified as sourcing countries; for
instance, Malaysia for rubber or Saudi Arabia for petroleum.
   Typically, a global company will control a portfolio of operations in
these different categories of country. The benefit of such
categorization is to establish priorities in investments and to guide
entry strategies (a topic that will be discussed in Chapter 7).

Value proposition
The value proposition is defined by the value attributes and the market
to which the company seeks to appeal. It comprises:

•   Choice of value attributes prioritized.
•   Choice of customer segments targeted.
•         Degree of worldwide standardization adopted for the
    product/service offering.

These three factors interrelate, as shown in Figure 5.8.




Figure 5.8 The three dimensions of the value proposition

  Value attributes are the elements of the products or services that
customers value when making their purchasing decision. These include
the product design, functionality, performance, quality, customization
and price, as well as the related service, brand, availability, and other
features. The set of those attributes for a particular group of
customers and a particular product or service gives the customers’
value curve as illustrated in Figure 5.9.




Figure 5.9 Example of customers’ value curve

   Professor Michael Porter of Harvard Business School has identified
two ‘generic’ strategies corresponding to two types of value
attributes:5

•        A proposition based on value-enhancing attributes such as
    performance, quality, service and customization. Porter calls this a
    differentiated attribute.
•       A proposition based on price for standardized products or
    services. Porter calls this cost leadership.

The same typology can apply to global positioning: the company can
either position itself as a global differentiator or a global cost leader.
   Customer segments are groups of customers that have similar
value curves. Those customer groups can be identified by income
level, geographical location, age and lifestyle attributes for consumer
goods and service industries; or by industry, size and purchasing
behaviour for business-to-business (B2B) industries. The strategic
choice at this level is to decide whether the company should prioritize
one or two segments – a positioning that Michael Porter qualifies as
focused – or whether it attempts to embrace many or all customer
segments – a positioning qualified as broad.
   The third component of the value proposition is the choice between
a standardized versus an adaptive value proposition across countries.
If you aim to appeal to similar value attributes or the same type of
customer segments across the globe, your approach is qualified as
standardized; if you try to appeal to different value attributes or
segments according to the country or regions, the approach is
qualified as adaptive.
   Thus the company’s value proposition consists of trying to identify
the customer groups it wants to serve (focused or broad), the type of
value attribute it wants to offer to those customers (cost versus
differentiation) and whether it is homogeneous or not across countries
(standardized versus adaptive). Coca-Cola, Swatch and Sony, for
instance, have a standard value proposition across the globe and
serve similar segments. Unilever and Procter & Gamble adjust their
value proposition and their segmentation in different countries.
   The combination of those three choices can lead to eight different
positionings, which are illustrated in Table 5.4 with some examples.
Table 5.4 Global positioning alternatives




  The strategic choice of a value proposition dictates the type of
capabilities that are needed to compete globally, and therefore the
type of business system in which the company needs to invest.
Global business system

The third of our four elements to global strategy consists of the
business system deployed across countries in order to transfer and
reinforce the company’s existing competitive advantages and build
new ones. We will first define what a business system is and describe
the components of a global business system, and second consider
how global firms (re)create, reinforce and transfer their competitive
advantages.

Global business system and its components
A business system is the configuration of the various activities that a
firm carries out (either internally or externally through alliances) in
order to design, produce and deliver value to customers, and
ultimately to capture value for itself. Professor Porter describes a
company business system as a ‘value chain’.6 Global business system
design consists of breaking down this company value chain into
elements that are spread and integrated across the world. Each
company has a different value chain according to the type of industry
in which it operates and the degree of vertical integration it has
adopted.
   However, three major generic components of a value chain can be
distinguished:

•   Innovative activities: R&D, knowledge creation, design.
•    Productive activities: procurement, manufacturing, back office,
  operations, logistics.
•    Customer relationship activities: marketing, sales, distribution,
  customer services.
  In each of these activities, the company deploys resources, assets
and competencies. Figure 5.10 represents a generic value chain,
showing the key resources, assets and competencies that are
typically found in each activity.
Figure 5.10 Generic value chain

  During the process of globalization, companies split their value chain
by spreading their activities across the world. The typical path of
globalization of the value chain is described in Figure 5.11.
Figure 5.11 Typical globalization of the value chain

   The first stage is the export stage in which the only element of the
value chain to be set up in foreign countries is sales, and even then
this is not through direct investment but through local distributors,
agents or licensing. The only direct investment at this stage is, if the
size of the market justifies it, the creation of a representative office for
one country or region. Those representative offices are set up to seize
opportunities, identify agents, distributors and partners, organize trade
flow and prepare the way for future substantial investments.
   The second stage is to actively invest in marketing subsidiaries to
manage the marketing mix. Those subsidiaries are staffed with
expatriates plus local recruits and their role is to coordinate the
activities of the distributors, organize promotions, set up logistics and
service centres and, in some cases, some operational facilities, such
as testing laboratories or assembling operations to support the sales
effort. Those marketing subsidiaries may eventually take over the local
distribution. When the market justifies the expense, or when local
governments require the localization of value-adding activities,
companies invest in manufacturing or operational facilities for the
service sectors. Some R&D facilities may be localized as well, in order
to better adapt products or services to local conditions. These foreign
investments are made either as wholly owned subsidiaries, as joint
ventures or via acquisitions of local firms. At this stage, as the number
of those investments increases, the company is a multinational,
managing a portfolio of relatively independent worldwide subsidiaries.
   During the final stage of globalization, multinational companies
integrate and coordinate their worldwide operations to take advantage
of economies of scale, transfer of know-how and resource
optimization. This leads to an interlocking set of value chain activities
which falls broadly into three categories: the activities which have a
global role to serve the whole world (global activities, such as global
research centres, or global plants), those which have a regional role
(regional activities) and those which are purely local (local activities).
Figure 5.12 shows how these three categories interact.




Figure 5.12 A generic global distribution of activities in the value chain


Competitive advantages
Competitive advantages are capabilities that are difficult to replicate or
imitate and are non-tradable. Traditionally, there were seen to be two
types of capability that lead to competitive advantage (Porter 1985):

•    Capabilities leading to an increase in customer value through
  performance, quality and brand services: a differentiated value
  proposition.
• Capabilities leading to a lower cost base, such as low-cost labour,
  low-cost sourcing, economies of scale in production, efficiency: a
  cost leadership value proposition.

More recently, three other types of competitive advantage have been
identified:

•    Capabilities that allow companies to be ahead of the competition in
    developing new products or services, leading to an innovative
    advantage. 7
•      Capabilities that allow companies to be faster in adapting to
    change and delivering value to customers, leading to a time-based
    advantage. 8
•     Adopting a ‘blue ocean strategy’ – that is, by-passing the existing
    competition and creating a new market space. This approach, as
    initiated by Chan Kim and Renée Mauborgne,9 is based on four
    principles:

    –   eliminating those elements of the value curve that are not
      necessary;
    – reducing some elements that are less important;
    – augmenting those elements that need more emphasis; and
    – creating new elements as needed.

An example of such an approach is the Australian wine maker Yellow
Tail (see below).
  These capabilities are shown in Table 5.5.
Table 5.5 Capabilities leading to competitive advantage




EXAMPLE 5.3 Yellow Tail: a blue ocean strategy in action in
the global market space

Yellow Tail, a mid-sized Australian wine maker, successfully entered
the highly competitive US market (and later on, the European and
Asian markets) by creating a new market space based on the
following features:

•    Targeting consumers that usually do not buy wine, intimidated by
  its complex lexicology and the wide ranges of variety and price on
  offer.
•     Limiting the offer to two simple understandable types of wine;
  Cabernet Sauvignon for red wine, Chardonnay for white.
•   Establishing a simple, strong and recognizable ‘Yellow Tail’ brand.
•   Affordable price range and distribution via supermarkets.
Source: Kim and Mauborgne (2007).



Sources of competitive advantages
These competitive advantages find their sources in the proprietary
ownership of, or access to, valuable resources, assets or
competencies, as shown in Figure 5.13.




Figure 5.13 Sources of competitive advantage

Sustainability of competitive advantage
Competitive advantage, in order to be valuable, needs to be long-
lasting.10 From an economic point of view, a competitive advantage is
similar to a monopoly that the company creates for itself and which
gives the company a profit advantage over its competitors. This
happens only if this monopoly is not immediately neutralized by
imitation.
  There are four ways of achieving sustainability:

•    Customer loyalty due to a strong brand or a unique customer
  value.
•    Positive feedback due to accumulated experience or network
  effects.11
•    Pre-emption of key resources such as location, key personnel,
  distribution networks, patents and so on.
•     Imitation barriers such as inimitable competencies or costly
  capabilities to copy or replicate.

Global firms’ competitive advantages
For global firms, the central issue is to be able to utilize their existing
advantages in multiple-country leverages in order to compete
successfully with local players and other global competitors. This can
be done in two ways:

•  By being among the first competitors to enter a given market: first-
  mover advantages. This will be discussed in more detail in Chapter
  7.
• By exploiting capabilities already built up in other countries in order
  to displace and dominate existing competitors: leveraging
  advantages.

   The determining factors in gaining leveraging advantages are linked
to the ability to transfer existing competitive capabilities from one
country to another, to adapt some capabilities to local conditions and
also to create new ones fitted to local markets. These abilities to
transfer, adapt and create will be discussed later in this chapter. Table
5.6 describes the typical sources of competitive advantages of global
firms and Table 5.7 shows how such global firms typically achieve
sustainability.
Table 5.6 Sources of competitive advantage of global companies


 Manufacturing                              Services
 Access to a globally scarce Access to a globally scarce
   resource                         resource
 Access to natural resources:     Access to financial resources:
   agribusiness, mining, etc.       banking, insurance Access to
   Access to low-cost labour if     qualified human resources:
   in a labour-intensive industry   designers, entertainment, etc.
 Access to a supply network       Access to information: consulting
                                    activities
 Critical mass built at home    Critical mass built at home
 Efficient manufacturing system Credit cards, courier services,
    size                          airlines, transport
 ‘Network’                       ‘Network’ effect
 effect Specialized network of   Consulting, engineering, financial
    production sites Established   services, brokerage, buying
    product performance,           services, shipping agency, news
    quality                        agencies, hotel chains
 Competencies built over                    Competencies built over time
   time                                     Consulting, engineering, hospital
 Technology management                        management, legal, education,
                                              etc.
 Image, brands and                          Image, brands and reputation
   reputation                               Hotel, fast foods, distribution,
 Long-lasting relationships with              training, etc. (e.g. McDonald’s,
   customers, well-established                Walmart, Harvard Business
   brands (e.g. Coca-Cola,                    School)
   Apple, Mercedes)
 ‘Piggybacking’                  ‘Piggybacking’
 Associated with the             Associated with the international
    international development of    development of another firm or
    another firm or industry                      industry Some consulting
                                                  activities, banking, engineering,
                                                  hotels

Table 5.7 Building global sustainable advantage




Global, regional, multinational deployment of
competitive advantages
One particular aspect of leveraging competitive advantage in a global
setting is related to the way in which a company will distribute and
organize its capabilities. From that point of view, three types of
configuration can be identified:

•   Global configuration: the world is considered as a single market,
  therefore products will be standardized across the globe and
  organization will be centralized.
•       Regional configuration: the competitive approach will be
  differentiated according to regional characteristics and the
  organizational structure will be designed around regions. Many
  authors have advocated the benefits of a regional approach rather
  than a global or multinational one. 12
•    Multinational configuration: the world is a collection of different
  countries, and competitive strategies will be adapted to the different
  environment.
Global competitive advantages and liability of
foreignness
It has been argued that when developing in foreign countries, global
firms face the difficulty of being unfamiliar with the new environment as
well as not having a local network and having to manage operations
from a distance. Companies operating abroad not only have less
knowledge of the host markets, they are likely to encounter
discrimination by clients, suppliers and governments, additional
transportation and coordination costs, and the risk of foreign exchange
rate fluctuations and asset expropriation. Their difficulties are amplified
when the host country is more distant from the home country in terms
of culture, economic development, political systems and business
practices. Doing business in distant countries often means increased
organizational complexity, higher transportation, adaptation and
monitoring costs. Other challenges include understanding and
transferring knowledge and competences to the host market, and
dealing with local customers, suppliers, governments and employees.
   This constitutes a handicap known as the liability of foreignness.13
Therefore it is necessary for the global firm to compensate for this
weakness with a set of competitive advantages that are superior to
those of the local or international firms that are already established in
the host markets.14

Global chess
In addition to leveraging their intrinsic competitive advantages, global
companies possess the ability to play a global ‘chess game’, meaning
that they can cross-subsidize one country with another in order to
compete more effectively. A company uses its cash flow in one
country in order to subsidize the development of the business in
another country, or loses money in one country in order to gain a
higher profit to compensate those losses in another country. Finally,
tax arbitrage through transfer pricing mechanisms allows global
companies to optimize their overall return given the constraints
imposed by the various regulatory authorities.
   An example of the global ‘chess game’ was provided in the 1970s,
when the French company Michelin entered North America with radial
tyre technology that American tyre producers could not reproduce on
a large scale. In order to delay Michelin’s entry and to make it more
painful, Goodyear engaged in a price war in Europe where it had a
relatively small market share. This forced Michelin, the market leader
in Europe, to also lower its prices and therefore be deprived of a
source of cash flow that could have been used to finance its expansion
in the United States. Another example of cross-subsidization is
provided by Citibank’s Global Account Management Program by which
a global marketing plan is negotiated by the Citibank parent account
manager with a corporate client for its financial needs worldwide. For
instance, Citibank may give ‘sweetener’ financing for a project in
Argentina, but as a quid pro quo it will get a large share of a
securitization in Hong Kong. In this case, Argentina subsidizes Hong
Kong for the overall benefit of the company.

The transferability of capabilities in multinational
and global firms: the transfer, adapt, create model
Obviously one of the central issues when firms globalize is to know
which capabilities can be easily transferred internationally to new
territories without any change (Transfer), which capabilities can be
transferred with some adaptation to local conditions (Adapt) and which
ones have to be created from scratch when entering new countries
(Create).
   Figure 5.14 gives an example of the application of the Transfer,
Adapt, Create model in the case of mass retailers such as Walmart,
Tesco or Carrefour. For instance, in supply chain management,
electronic data processing can be transferred without change. Nearly
all competencies that form the basis of the companies’ competitive
strengths need to be adapted to take into consideration the behaviour
of local consumers, suppliers and employees. Physical assets cannot
be transferred and need to be created on the spot, and even
intangible assets such as well-known brands need to be ‘re-created’ in
the localities if they are not known by local consumers.
Figure 5.14 The Transfer, Adapt, Create model applied to the globalization of mass retailing
Note: For each component of the value chain the capabilities that can be transferred (T),
adapted (A) or created (C) are identified.

The role of partnership and strategic alliances in
building global capabilities
In the process of globalization, companies may well need to acquire
and complement their capabilities by setting up partnerships. Although
we will discuss global strategic partnership in Chapter 8, it is useful, at
this stage, to note that partnerships are very often critical for achieving
a global presence and building global competitive advantages. This
applies to even for the most alliance-allergic firms, such as Michelin,
which tried to build a global presence by itself, but eventually was
forced to make an acquisition in the United States (Uniroyal) and
undertake several joint ventures in Asia (Japan, Korea, Thailand).
Strategic alliances for globalization can take several forms:

•       Global alliances: the role of which is to pool complementing
    capabilities to reach world markets, or to achieve a critical mass in
    R&D. Good examples of world market partnerships are the airline
    alliances such as Star or One-World, or Concert in the telecoms
    sector between BT and AT&T. R&D global alliances are frequent in
    aerospace, life sciences, electronic defence industries and oil
    exploration.
•   Partnerships for market entry: such as joint ventures, franchises
  or licensing: the role of which is to comply with local government
  requirements (as has been the case in China) or to facilitate entry
  or minimize risks in a particular country.
•    Acquisitions: from an ownership point of view, these are not
  partnerships, since one party takes over the other, but from a
  management point of view they are not dissimilar to an alliance,
  since different national and corporate cultures have to be combined.
  Acquisitions may be either global or local in scope.

Global organization

The final element of a global strategy is the design of an
organizational architecture which is able to support and implement the
global ambition, global positioning and global business system already
described. In Chapter 15, we will discuss in more depth the various
types of global organizations and the issues associated with their
implementation. Here, we will limit our comments to the key elements
of choices that may be considered during the strategy formulation
process.
  Alongside the global development path described in Figure 5.11,
several authors have identified different types of structures, systems
and cultures in the management of global firms;15 see Table 5.8.
Table 5.8 Organizational designs for global strategies
Source: Authors’ own figure. Adapted from text in Stopford and Wells (1972); Prahalad and Doz
(1987); Bartlett and Ghoshal (2000); Heenan and Perlmutter (1979).

   These different organizational choices have been mapped by
Bartlett and Ghoshal in a grid that positions the various types of global
structure according to the competitive requirements of global
integration and local responsiveness, as in Figure 5.15.




Figure 5.15 Global/multi-local mapping and global structures
Source: Authors’ own figure, based on Bartlett and Ghoshal (1989).

  The choice of an adequate organizational model is contingent upon
the following factors:
•  The nature of the competitive context in the industry. As discussed
  in Chapter 1, the more ‘global’ the industry, the more integrated and
  coordinated the activities and the more the organizational structure
  should reflect this integration. The world functional structure, the
  global business structure or the matrix structure fulfil this
  requirement.
•    The strategic positioning adopted by the firm. A standardized
  positioning using cost leadership as a competitive advantage will
  require a tightly integrated organization such as the centralized hub
  or the global business structure.

Global strategies and the multi-business firm
In the previous sections of this chapter we developed a framework for
the formulation of global strategies made up of four elements:
ambition, positioning, investment and organization. This framework
applies when a company operates in a homogeneous industry
environment. If the company is multi-business, and controls a portfolio
of different business sectors, the framework applies at the level of
each business but not directly at the level of the total corporation. As
is often the case, in a given corporation, some businesses are more
global than others and the rules of competition differ from business to
business. For instance, in the telecommunications industry, voice
telephony and mobile telephony are essentially local or national
businesses, while corporate data is a global business. France
Telecom’s stated strategic ambition is to be a national player in France
for voice telephony, a European player in mobile and a global player in
corporate data.
   However, the global corporate strategy of a multi-business
corporation is more than the mathematical sum of the global strategies
of each business it controls.16 It may be defined in terms of the four
elements described earlier, but with modified content:

•     Corporate global ambition: overall strategic direction assigned to
    the group for its globalization. Does the corporation want to be a
  global player in all businesses it controls or does it assign different
  global profiles to different businesses? What is the overall mission
  for the group?
•       Corporate global positioning: which businesses does the
  corporation want to be in? Does the corporation view its business
  portfolio as homogeneous in terms of competitive positioning? Does
  it want to be a cost leader across the board? Does it want the
  businesses to share a common global brand?
•    Global business system: to what extent do business units share
  resources, assets and competencies in order to optimize
  synergies? What are the corporate priorities in resource allocation
  among businesses?
• Global organization: is the global structure organized according to
  a geographical design, a global business design or a matrix design?
  What is the role of the corporate headquarters in the strategic and
  operational control of the business units? Does the corporation set
  up regional headquarters to coordinate activities at regional level?
  What kind of human resource management (HRM) has the
  corporation put in place? Are the key managerial functions managed
  globally for all businesses, at business level or at regional level?

All these questions boil down to one key consideration: What is the
value added of corporate activities in fostering the global
competitiveness of the business units?
   In Chapter 14 we go into this issue in more detail and some
examples will be presented.

Global strategies and the small and medium-
sized enterprise (SME)
Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) represent a significant
proportion of employment activities in the world (Table 5.9). Their
participation in international trade and investment remains relatively
limited; their main global activities are sourcing and exporting.
According to the OECD, SMEs account for about 60 per cent of
employment and between 50 per cent and 60 per cent of value added
and are the main drivers of productivity in many regions and cities.17
‘The SME contribution to overall exports is for most countries similar
to their contribution to value added between 20% to 40% for most
OECD economies.’18 The European Commission in 2010 indicated that
25 per cent of European SMEs are engaged in exports, 29 per cent in
imports, 2 per cent in foreign direct investments and 7 per cent in
technological partnerships.19 However, ‘when the role of SMEs as
suppliers of inputs to larger direct exporters is taken into account, the
importance of SMEs as exporters increases considerably’.20
Table 5.9 SMEs’ economic weight measured by contribution to employment and value added in
selected countries in Europe, North and South America, Asia Pacific




Source: The MSME Economic Indicators Database 2019 consulted on 15 September 2020,
https://www.smefinanceforum.org/data-sites/msme-country-indicators (accessed 1 February
2022).
   Does the framework presented here apply to SMEs as well as large
multinational and global enterprises? The answer to that question is
‘yes and no’. ‘No’, because of SMEs’ limited resource base; they are
not generally able to create global capabilities by deploying assets,
resources and competencies in the twenty to thirty countries that
represent 90 per cent of world demand. ‘Yes’, because these
companies also need to ‘think global’ if they are competing in sectors
that are confronted with global competition and if new market
opportunities are located outside their national boundaries.
   Obviously, their global strategic design will probably not be as
comprehensive and complex as the one that has been developed here,
but the ambition, position, investment and organization framework may
be a useful tool for marshalling their thinking.

Different types of SMEs and their globalization potential

Not all SMEs are candidates for global expansion. A large proportion,
estimated at around 40 per cent of SMEs, are involved in activities
that are not subjected to international sourcing, exporting or producing.
Those are the traditional local services, small shops or artisans. A
small proportion, estimated at around 5–10 per cent, are strategically
affected by globalization, either because their products or services are
challenged by global competitors, because they contribute to the
global value chains of bigger multinational companies, or because their
innovative products need to be deployed globally for economic or
competitive reasons. These would include high-tech entrepreneurial
firms, subcontractors or niche players in advanced services or luxury
products. The remaining 50 per cent could be involved or are
marginally involved in international activities but a number of barriers
deter them.
   Based on a survey in the east of England with 1,200 SMEs,21 a
typology of international SMEs was developed at different stages of
internationalization (Table 5.10).
Table 5.10 Typology of international SMEs
 The Curious           Only marginal consideration of export activities

 The                   Have experienced international activities but do not
   Frustrated            push very hard to expand them

 The Tentative         Some experience but are still limited by a lack of
                         market intelligence
 The            Considerable experience of international activity
   Enthusiastic   but still limited by access to skills and resources

 The                   High levels of experience and skills
   Successful

Source: Lloyd-Reason and Mughan, quoted in OECD (2008: 20–1).

Globalization of large multinational companies has created
opportunities for SMEs to participate in global value chains as
suppliers or subcontractors.22 One such opportunity is known as
‘piggybacking’ whereby large firms help their smaller subcontractors or
suppliers to set operations close to their own foreign investments.
Another form of involvement in the global value chain is the
generalization of outsourcing by large firms who want to concentrate
on their core competencies and open opportunities for external
suppliers to provide the goods and services that were previously
produced internally.


  Insert 5.2 Piggybacking
  Piggybacking is a form of indirect internationalization of a firm
  which uses the capabilities of another firm to export or invest into
  international markets. The exporting firm is called the ‘rider’ and
  the supporting firm is called ‘the carrier’. This practice can take
  several forms:
  1      The carrier uses its sales network to market the rider’s
      products. This is the most ancient form of indirect export
      carried by traditional trading firms such as Japan’s sogo
      shoshas or the hongs in Hong Kong.
  2   The carriers invite the riders to participate in a construction
    project as subcontractor, a frequent practice in infrastructures
    such as airports, refineries, factories, power plants.
  3    The carrier as an established foreign investor in a country
    invites and facilitate a supplier to invest close to their foreign
    facilities facilities

  Piggybacking can be very helpful to small and medium-sized
  companies in developing a global presence without carrying the
  entry costs.
  Sources: Terpstra and Chwo-Ming (1990); Djärf and Engström (2003).




   Most SMEs will perceive themselves as ‘global exporters’, relying
on local distributors and agents for the sales and marketing of their
products. Some more daring companies will set up representative
offices in key countries in order to support their marketing efforts, and
control and coordinate their distributors. The most resourceful will
establish operational subsidiaries either directly or through
partnerships of resources to ‘globalize’.
   In all cases, they will have to address the question of their
competitive positioning and the deployment of capabilities to capture
the market opportunities. In any case SMEs will have to overcome the
barriers to internationalization and find ways to enhance their global
capabilities.

Barriers to internationalization for SMEs
Table 5.11 provides a list of the barriers to internationalization for
SMEs.
   As Table 5.10 shows, those barriers belong to two categories: one
related to financial issues and the other to the ability to deal with a
foreign environment. In fact SMEs have to deal with two sorts of
liabilities when they engage in international/global business: the liability
of size and the liability of foreignness. Both liabilities end up being a
problem of resources, whether financial, human or bargaining power.

Overcoming the barriers
Two major sources of intervention may help SMEs to overcome the
barriers to internationalization: government-led initiatives and
company-led initiatives.
Table 5.11 Obstacles to internationalization as perceived by SMEs


 Rank –               Description of barrier
   weighted
   factor
 1                    Shortage of working capital to finance exports
 2                    Difficulty identifying foreign business opportunities
 3                    Limited information to locate/analyse markets
 4                    Inability to contact potential overseas customers
 5                    Difficulty obtaining reliable foreign representation

 6                    Lack of managerial time to deal with
                        internationalization
 7                    Inadequate quantity of personnel and/or untrained
                         personnel for internationalization

 8                    Difficulty in matching competitors’ prices
 9                    Lack of home government assistance/incentives
 10                   Excessive transportation costs
Note: Barriers ranked by SMEs using the top ten ranking method.

Source: OECD (2009), Table 1. Reused with permission from the Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development.

Many governments or international organizations, being conscious of
the difficulties that many SMEs face, have tried to implement specific
programmes. In 2009 the OECD grouped government support
initiatives into four categories: financial help programmes, business
environment facilitators, capability-enhancement programmes and
assistance in information gathering.23 The OECD published a report
detailing the various programmes implemented in seventeen OECD
countries to facilitate SMEs’ internationalization.24 The following
approaches are the kind of actions that governments can implement in
order to foster the global capabilities of SMEs.

    —     Information gathering and distribution. Most governments,
      thanks to their diplomatic networks, have access to a myriad of
      information about business opportunities and risks in many
      countries. Factual and legal information can be made available
      online, and special reports on countries and industries can be
      provided to the public. Tailor-made, customized studies can be
      proposed at affordable costs.
    — Advice and consulting. When an entrepreneur is considering
      exporting or investing in a particular region, a specialized
      government agency can provide consultancy and advisory
      services about various alternatives, potential partners, market
      access and legal issues that can help the company to evaluate
      the costs and benefits as well as the specific risks.
    —     Trade fairs. One useful way to raise a company’s profile in
      international markets is to participate in trade fairs. Costs are
      generally quite high and government agencies can provide an
      umbrella for presenting the products and services of SMEs. In
      some cases, specific conferences on industrial sectors can be
      organized and sponsored, and entrepreneurs can present
      papers about their company and products.
    —        Training. Organizing specialized training programmes on
        international marketing, market entry, joint venturing, cross-
        cultural issues, languages and so on.
    —     Financing. Providing insurance for risks taken by firms.
     Sponsored loans for SMEs.
    — Logistical and market access support. Helping companies in
     their dealings with authorities, finding agents, distributors and
     partners. Providing offices from which entrepreneurs can initiate
     their business. Helping in negotiations.

Appendix 5.2 gives some information about selected government
agencies and their various programmes.
   Government support is not the only requisite for small and medium-
sized businesses to start exporting and investing internationally. In
2004 the European Community carried out a study25 to analyse the
characteristics of successful exporters. The study pinpointed the
following factors that enhanced exporting capabilities:

•   Owner/CEO personal involvement
•   International experience of founder
•   Consistency and persistence.

   In addition, the study pinpointed the significant benefits of the
internet for SMEs in their internationalization process, both in terms of
information gathering and e-market opportunities.

Born global
So far this chapter has presented the traditional views of global
strategic development, mainly a step-by-step progressive international
deployment known as the Uppsala model.26 However, some
companies have moved rapidly to globalize and adopt an international
presence from the beginning of their existence. Those firms are
described as ‘born global’ or sometimes ‘international new ventures’.
There are many definitions of ‘born global’.27 The earlier proponents of
the concept defined born global firms as ‘firms that intended to export
immediately upon inception’,28 or firms that ‘succeed in world markets
without an established domestic base’,29 thus concentrating on the
early exporting drive of those companies. The concept has since
evolved to include ‘business organizations that, from inception, seek to
derive significant competitive advantage from the use of resources and
the sale of outputs in multiple countries’,30 thus encompassing firms
that perform operational activities in foreign countries: a positioning
which is similar to the definition of a ‘global firm’ that is adopted in this
textbook.
  Many researchers31 have found the following characteristics of born
global firms:

•       A small domestic market inciting entrepreneurs to find a larger
     market for starting a new venture.
•          The presence of multinational customers (a piggybacking
     perspective).
•        The emergence of global niches markets particularly in the
     technology intensive sectors.32
•         The firm’s products or services have significant first-mover
     advantages or network effects.
•       Born global firms offer high value-added products or services –
     technology start-ups in particular tend to quickly find partners,
     distributors and sometimes production or service in foreign markets.
•     Internationally experienced and highly motivated company leaders.
•     Strong capabilities in building partnerships.

The differences between born global firms and traditional globalizing
ones is presented in Table 5.12 below.
Table 5.12 Differences between born global and traditional global firms


    Born global SMEs                        Traditional stepwise
                                            internationalizing SMEs
 •    The world is seen as one     •    The world is seen as multiple
     market                            markets
 •    The market of origin is      •    The market of origin is a
     simply one market among           stepping stone for
     others                            internationalization

 •    Learning by doing            •    Learning in the original market is
                                       prerequisite for engaging in
                                       internationalization

 •    Standardization of           •    Most often tailor-made products
     products and services             and services to fit local markets

 •    Speed is important (first-   •    Step-by-step progress
     mover advantage)
 •    Rely early on networks       •    Build networks progressively
     (intermediaries, banks,
     consultants, etc.)

   We shall examine the examples of three born global firms: Gemplus
(a French smartcard manufacturer), Sunna (a French company
involved in lighting solutions) and Cochlear (an Australian high-tech
firm).

Born global and born digital
There is some evidence that digital platforms and applications have
been globalizing their presence more rapidly after their inception than
traditional non-digital firms (see Table 5.13). Firms that base from the
start their business model on internet-based transactions can be
qualified as ‘born digital firms’. The propensity for a large fraction of
born digital firms to become global players rapidly after their inception
can be due to several factors. First, the ease that technology provides
to connect with potential customers, partners and suppliers across the
world. Second, the automated interactions in computer-to-computer
and computer-to-user relationships allow these newcomers to benefit
from network effects, both direct and indirect. Third, their physical
presence is more often limited to low capital-intensive local offices in
global markets giving them flexibility to operate and change their local
profile. Often in many cases born digital firms deal with non-physical
products or services such as social networks and booking platforms
that are easily scalable providing the opportunity to build rapidly
economies of scale (economies of ‘clicks’).
Table 5.13 Examples of three major born global firms




EXAMPLE 5.4 Gemplus: from Marseille to the world

In the late 1980s, the French company Gemplus was one of the first
companies to enter the market for smart-cards. Immediately after its
formation in Marseille in the south of France, it created a subsidiary in
Germany, a joint venture company in Singapore and a marketing
company in the United States. This strategy reflected the nature of the
industry: the technology of the smartcard is pervasive; it has numerous
applications in banking, telecommunications, transport and internet
transactions; and it has the potential to become global. National
boundaries do not provide strong entry barriers, but national
legislations and established infrastructures make national presence a
competitive requirement. Network externalities, customer base and
first-to-enter are significant competitive advantages in this industry.
Gemplus, which is a medium-sized technology firm, realized this
competitive imperative and, right from the start, devoted a large
proportion of its limited resources to global expansion.
   In 2006 Gemplus merged with Axalto to create Gemalto,
headquartered in Amsterdam.
   In 2016 it operated in forty-eight countries with 15,000 employees
and €3.1 billion turnover.


EXAMPLE 5.5 Sunna Design: a born global start-up

Sunna Design was created in 2010 near Bordeaux (France) by a
young engineer. His project was to develop a public lighting solution
based on solar energy and separate from the public electricity grid.
The applications of such a system could be widespread, particularly in
rural areas of emerging countries. Initially, the young start-up received
financial support from the French government as well as corporate
partners to develop prototypes and support early sales. The company
was able to raise €6.6 million to fund its development. Applications
were rapidly sold to twenty countries including Senegal, Nigeria,
Cameroon, South Africa and Saudi Arabia. R&D and production are
located in France but system installation is handled by a network of
twenty local installers. In 2015 the company achieved a turnover of
€1.4 million, 95 per cent of which was generated outside France.
   See http://www.sunna-design.fr/en.



EXAMPLE 5.6 Cochlear: an Australian born global high-
tech company

Cochlear Pty Ltd was founded in Melbourne in 1981 in order to
commercialize the multi-channel ear implant technology developed by
Professor Graeme Clark (with the support of the University of
Melbourne). Following the opening of a second office in Sydney in
1982, the company rapidly expanded its presence outside Australia
with its first US office opening in 1984, followed by Europe and Japan.
In 2005 the company acquired Philips Hearing Instruments in Belgium,
thus establishing its first global research centre. In the same year, it
acquired Entific Medical System, a Swedish hearing-aid company, and
in 2012 acquired Otologist, a middle-ear-implant firm in Boulder,
Colorado. It has now established research agreements and
arrangements with more than 100 external research partners around
the world. Cochlear has a global supply chain and sells into more than
100 countries. Components are sourced across Europe, Asia and the
Americas. Manufacturing operations are primarily located in Australia
and Sweden, with smaller sites in Belgium and the USA. Cochlear has
direct local operations in twenty countries and 2,800 employees. It
operates with three regional headquarters:

•   USA for the Americas (accounting for 45 per cent of their global
  sales across four national offices);
• Europe (37 per cent of global sales to more than nine countries);
•     Asia Pacific/Australasia (18 per cent of global sales to ten
  countries).

In its annual company report for 2015–2016, Cochlear stated that
manufacturing operations are primarily located in Australia and
Sweden, with smaller sites in Belgium and the US. Suppliers and the
manufacturing sites are aligned to enable the company to deliver
products of the highest quality and reliability.
  See http://www.cochlear.com/.




    MINI-CASE 5.1

    HSBC: the world’s local bank
The Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation was created
in Shanghai in 1865. Its primary business was to finance trade
with China. Up until the Second World War, it expanded rapidly in
the Asia Pacific region (Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines and
Thailand), with only a limited presence in the USA and Europe.
After 1950, the bank embarked on a series of acquisitions in
Europe (UK, France), the Middle East, Latin America (Mexico,
Argentina, Brazil) and the USA. It listed on the New York, London,
Paris and Hong Kong stock exchanges, and also moved its
corporate headquarters from Hong Kong to London in 1993. In
1999 it adopted the name HSBC and positioned itself as ‘the
world’s local bank’, defining itself as a global bank with strong
local presence and knowledge. The principal holding company,
HSBC Holdings plc, is a public limited company incorporated in
England. HSBC has a matrixed management structure organized
according to its global businesses and global support functions.
These are underpinned by the legal entity structure, which is
made up of a global network of locally incorporated subsidiary
companies that provide oversight at a country and regional level.
Each of these subsidiaries has a board and management
structure that reflects its activities and complexity. To strengthen
accountability and flows of information, there are seven principal
subsidiaries that are responsible for the oversight of Group
companies in their region and accountable to the board of HSBC
Holdings plc.
    HSBC’s structure is also influenced by the regulatory
framework that applies to it. Many of the Group’s entities are
locally regulated. While HSBC Holdings plc is not itself a regulated
entity, it owns – directly or indirectly – a number of operating
subsidiaries that are regulated and supervised as banks,
insurance companies or securities firms in the countries and
territories where they operate. In addition, the HSBC Group is
subject to the consolidated supervision of the UK Prudential
Regulation Authority.
    It is the largest bank in Europe, with total assets of $2.715
trillion (as of August 2020). Its network comprises 3,900 offices in
sixty-five countries and territories across Africa, Asia, Oceania,
Europe, North America, and South America, and around 38 million
customers.
   HSBC is organized within four business groups: Commercial
Banking, Global Banking and Markets (investment banking), Retail
Banking and Wealth Management, and Global Private Banking. In
2020, the bank announced that it would consolidate its Retail
Banking and Wealth Management arm with Global Private
Banking, to form Wealth & Personal Banking. As of 30 October
2020, it had a market capitalisation of £66.1 billion ($90.1 billion
[as of January 2022]).
   The bank has developed a strategy of building networks within
the world’s largest and fastest growing trade corridors (streams
of products, services and information moving between geographic
entities) and economic zones. The company states that: ‘Our
network of businesses covers the world’s largest and fastest
growing trade corridors and economic zones. More than 43 per
cent of our client revenue derives from businesses and individuals
with an international presence’ (http://www.hsbc.com/about-
hsbc/our-strategy/the-value-of-our-network).
   The distribution of the bank’s net income and profit before tax
are given in Table 5.14.
Table 5.14 HSBC distribution of revenues, employment and customers
* Reported revenue per region is not additive and will not sum with total revenue due to
intra-HSBC transfer of $6,935 million. Percentages in revenues are calculated by:
Reported revenue per region/Sum of reported revenue per region (which exceeds
HSBC’s reported revenue for 2020).

Source: HSBC Annual report 2020.


Questions:

1    The bank defines its businesses as ‘global’. What is your
  opinion of this definition? Are all the businesses really global?
  What are the implications for decision making?
2 What is your assessment of HSBC’s strategy of focusing on
  trade corridors?




MINI-CASE 5.2

Essilor: a global player

Essilor is the result of the merger in 1972 of two French
ophthalmological companies: Essel, a specialist in corrective
glass lenses, and Silor, a specialist in plastic lenses. Its products
used to be exported through an international network of local
distributors but, in 1979, the company embarked on a global
strategy with the opening of its first international factory in the
Philippines and the progressive acquisition of local distributors.
Global development has occurred through a mixture of greenfield
investments, acquisitions and alliances. Between 2008 and 2010
it acquired or allied with 83 companies worldwide, and since 2011
an additional 45 partnerships have been completed.
   By 2019 Essilor was the number one player for corrective
optical lenses with a global market share of around 25 per cent, a
turnover of €7.5 billion with a profit of €757 million and 64,000
employees worldwide. In January 2017, Essilor announced a
merger with the Italian Luxottica Group, a global player in the
design, manufacture and distribution of eyewear, creating a new
entity with combined sales in excess of €17 billion, more than
140,000 employees and sales in more than 150 countries.
   The Essilor corrective lenses business process is built around
five elements:

•   Prescription laboratories which deliver lenses to professional
  customers (opticians, independent optometrists, wholesalers
  and optical chain stores) as quickly as possible. Essilor’s
  network includes 449 prescription laboratories and numerous
  independent laboratories which distribute its lenses.
• Factories that manufacture the lenses either in a semi-finished
  or finished form. Finished lenses are mass produced, with both
  sides prepared in the plant. For semi-finished lenses, only the
  front of the lenses is prepared in the plant. The back and
  coatings are applied later by prescription laboratories, before
  the lenses are delivered to stores. Essilor has 33 factories
  worldwide.
•     Distribution centres (14 in total) cover every stage in the
  distribution process: from the delivery of raw materials to
  plants to the delivery of finished products to optician
  customers. Essilor ships lenses from 14 production sites to 332
  finishing laboratories, before they are distributed to 300,000
  opticians around the world.
•    Technology and innovation centres undertake R&D for the
  development of new lenses as well as the anticipation of future
  needs. Essilor employs more than 600 researchers, in ten R&D
  centres and laboratories, some of which are its own and others
  in the form of joint ventures or joint partnerships.

The interaction of these components is represented in Figure
5.16.
Figure 5.16 Essilor’s business process
Source: Authors’ own, constructed using information available from
https://www.essilor.com.

•     Retail optical shops (opticians) providing customer contact,
    with ophthalmologists determining the type of lens required.
    Essilor relies on 300,000 independent optical shops around the
    world.
    Essilor’s strategy is based on four pillars:

•   Innovation in products, services and marketing as well as the
  quality of its relationships with opticians all over the world.
•   The growth and development of middle markets in emerging
  countries. Figure 5.17 represents the company’s views about
  the perspective of market development.
• The pursuit of acquisitions and partnerships.
•     Offering check-ups and supplying lenses in regions where
  access to optical care is difficult, in order to develop new
  markets.
Figure 5.17 Perspective on Essilor’s market development (figures as of 2014)
Source: Redrawn by the author from Estin & Co’s analysis on behalf of Essilor.
Reproduced with permission of Estin from Growing in a Bigger Playing Field: Essilor
Investor Day 2014, https://www.essilor.com/essilor-
content/uploads/2016/08/Essilor_2014-Investor-Day_Booklet_25062014.pdf (accessed 1
February 2022).


EssilorLuxottica

By December 2018, EssilorLuxottica, resulting from the merger of
Essilor and Luxottica, claimed that it had formed a global leader in
the design, manufacture and distribution of ophthalmic lenses,
frames and sunglasses, combining complementary expertise in
advanced lens technologies and in eyewear, creating a vertically
integrated business positioned to serve the global market of
eyecare and eyewear industry. EssilorLuxottica directly operates
7,700 stores (50 per cent in North America, 14 per cent in
Europe, 20 per cent in Asia, Oceania, Africa and 16 per cent in
Latin America) plus 3,200 franchises. The sales of the group
amounted to €17.4 billion with a net profit of 11.8 per cent.

Questions:

1  Based on the description of the business system and Figure
  5.16, what are the strategic and organizational challenges for
  Essilor’s global management?
2     From Figure 5.17 it appears that the most potentially
  attractive markets are in emerging countries. Do you think that
  Essilor’s strategic pillars are compatible with these market
  prospects?
3  What issues would be involved in developing the business in
  China, India, Indonesia and Russia?
4      Can EssilorLuxottica as an integrated group become a
    dominant global player in eyewear and lens products? What
    are the benefits of vertical integration?




MINI-CASE 5.3

Quinta do Vallado

Quinta do Vallado (Vallado), a Portuguese vineyard founded in
1716 and situated in the Douro Valley, had been run by the
Ferreira family and their descendants for 200 years. It produced
Port wine and in the late 1990s high quality table wines. Other
recent activities included wine tourism, an onsite shop and own-
label olive oil. It was recognized globally as a high-quality wine
producer – winning many awards and continued ratings above 90
points (96 times) by Wine Spectator and Robert Parker in 2020.
Over the past twenty years, globalization had become of utmost
importance with exports accounting for 40 per cent of its total
revenues by 2020. Its geographic reach had expanded tenfold
from 5 international markets in 2000 to 48 in 2020, with a sixfold
increase in growth rate in the last twelve years.
   The challenge was how to continue growing revenues. Vallado
could continue to push into international markets but which should
it prioritize given it would be competing with the largest wineries in
the world? There was also Covid-19 to consider and the long-
term impact on the industry. Vallado could concentrate on its
premium and super premium wines with high prices and margins
but low volumes, or develop entry-level wines with low prices and
margins but high volumes, sold through off-trade channels with
discount/promotion strategies. Alternatively, it could remain a
niche vineyard.

The Portuguese wine industry

Wine production in Portugal had always been an important part of
agriculture, related to domestic economic conditions but also with
a strong export tradition. In the eighteenth century, Port wine
exports were big business for the Portuguese, with Great Britain
the most important market. Regulation in the 1930s led to
improved wine quality and conditions for wine producers. A slogan
at the time was ‘To drink wine is to feed one million people in
Portugal.’ When Portugal joined the European Union in 1986 the
production of dry wines took off – with the abolishment of the Port
lodges’ monopoly wine producers including those in the Douro
valley could produce and bottle their own wine: Port or dry Douro
wines.

Quinta do Vallado

Vallado’s wines were uniquely positioned between the tradition of
the ‘Old World’ and the innovation of the ‘New World’. While Port
was a traditional Portuguese wine, the Douro region’s dry wines
had adopted some of the practices, marketing and mindset of the
New World. The Douro winemaking region was declared a World
Heritage Site in 2001. In 2003, Quinta do Vallado joined forces
with four other vine-yards in the region forming the Douro Boys
group with the goal of promoting the region’s wine. They pooled
their efforts, organizing joint presentations, seminars and tastings.
The Boys’ reputation grew globally, recognized by respected
critics including The New York Times.
   In 2009 a new winery was completed, combining state-of-the
art technology with high-quality architectural design; it was one of
the most visited places in the Douro Valley.

The Vallado wines

Vallado invested in the design of the bottles and the labels, a far
cry from the Portugal of the past. In 2009, Vallado moved from a
single national distributor in Portugal to several regional ones. The
goal was to be present in each region – this meant getting a
bottle of wine into a restaurant would be faster. The same year,
they decided to sell directly to large supermarket chains in
Portugal – another major change to its operations.

Premium brands

Vallado produced unique wines in small volumes targeted at the
‘luxury’ sector – a crucial contribution to the prestige of the
Vallado brand and its profitability. The Vallado Adelaide was the
top dry red wine from an old single vineyard. The name was a
tribute to the vineyard’s ancestor Dona Antonia Adelaide
   Ferreira. It was only produced in very special years (2005,
2007, 2008, 2009, 2011, 2012, 2014) and in small volumes
(3,500 bottles). Other premium brands included Vallado Tributa
Port 1866 (99 Parker Points and mainly sold in China at a time
when the market was strong in luxury) and Vallado ABF Port 1888
(98 Parker Points – launched in 2016 to cele-brate the 300th
anniversary of Quinta do Vallado. It was a limited edition of 933
numbered bottles – sold at more than €3,000 per bottle).
International markets

Two-thirds of Vallado’s production was destined for the domestic
market, giving a strong local base. Portugal’s domestic market
was growing progressively (mainly through tourism, hospitality,
restaurants, etc.) leading to steady wine sales. Vallado had
initially focused on the domestic market although its market share
was fairly small. It was also established in foreign Portuguese-
speaking markets (Angola, Brazil, Macau), where it had a strong
position and from there expanded into new potential markets
(USA, Canada, UK, China). Brazil and Angola had become priority
markets for Vallado wines.
   New opportunities included the US, one of Vallado’s largest
markets, where a 25 per cent tariff was imposed on imported
wines from France, Germany, Spain and the UK in 2019.
President Trump had then threatened to raise this tariff to 100 per
cent tax on all European wines.
   The UK was another potential market for Vallado, but with the
country’s withdrawal from the European Union, the long-term
effect on taxes and trade regulations was unclear. China was also
on the company’s radar – potentially a game-changer for sales of
Vallado’s wines as they opened an exclusive Vallado store in
November in Wenzhou, although a few months later it was closed
due to Covid-19. Poland was the vineyard’s largest export market
in value and volume. It was an example of the benefits of the
good relationship with the Portuguese supermarket chains –
Jeronimo Martins – that also owned the largest Polish retail chain,
with over 3,500 shops.

Questions:

1     What are the opportunities and risks for global strategists in
    the wine industry?
2    How can Quinta do Vallado continue to grow its revenues?
    Should it maintain its push into international markets? If so,
  which markets should be prioritized?
3 How can it compete with the largest wineries in the world to
  serve the global market?
4    Should it concentrate on: a) premium and super premium
  wines with high prices/low volumes or b) entry-level wines with
  low prices and margins but high volumes sold through off-trade
  channels with discount/promotion strategies?
5 Should it remain a niche vineyard?
6    Will Covid-19 have a long-term impact on the industry?
This mini-case is based on Monteiro, Pimentel and Carrick, Quinta do Vallado: From
Douro to the World, INSEAD case study (2020).


Summary and key points
1    A company business strategy is a set of fundamental choices
    which define the company’s long-term objectives, its value
    proposition to the market, how it intends to build and sustain a
    competitive business system and how it organizes itself
2    There are different levels of strategy:
    a    Business strategy applies at the level of an industry
    b  Corporate strategy applies at the level of a multi-business
      corporation
    c Global strategy applies at the level of world operations
3    A global strategy consists of:
    a  Global ambition: stating the relative importance of regions
      and countries for a company
    b      Global positioning: choice of countries, customer
      segments and value proposition
    c Global business system: investments in resources, assets
      and competencies to create a global value chain and global
      capabilities through alliances and acquisitions
    d       Global organization: global structure, processes,
      coordination and HRM
4   Global ambition
    a    Expresses the role a company wants to play in the world
        marketplace and how it views the future distribution of its
        sales and assets in the key regional clusters of the world:
        • Global player: present in all regions of the world
        •      Regional player: dominant in one region, low or no
            presence in others
        •    Regional dominant: global player that is particularly
          strong in one region, but still active in others
        •    Global exporter: sells only, no or limited production
          investments
        •    Global sourcer: manufactures or buys internationally
          but sells domestically

    b    Ambition can be measured by using global indices:
        •     Global Revenue Index (GRI) is the ratio of the
          company’s distribution of sales in the major world
          regions to the industry distribution of demand in the
          same region
        •     Global Capability Index (GCI) is the ratio of the
          company’s distribution of assets or personnel in the
          major world regions to the industry distribution in the
          same region
        •   The customer segments are the particular groups of
          customers who request similar value attributes (shared
          value curve)
        • Degree of world standardization of products/services:
    —       A standardized value proposition offers a similar or
        standard value attribute to the same type of customer
        segment across the world
    —        An adaptive value proposition tailors the value
     proposition to different regions
  c        The choice of global positioning depends on the
     company’s decisions on the:
     • Scope of targeted customer segments (broad/focused
       player)
     •      Approach of making a value proposition in different
       countries (standardized/adaptive)
     • Choice of generic strategies adopted (differentiation or
       cost leadership)
5 A global business system distributes the company value chain
  across the world. It involves the building and developing of
  capabilities to compete successfully in the global market
  space:
  a Value chain: there are three major generic components of
     a value chain: innovative activities, productive activities,
     customer relationship activities
    b      Capabilities: there are three types of capabilities:
      differentiation, cost leadership and innovation.
    c     Capabilities that are unique to a company and non-
      replicable by competitors constitute a company’s
      competitive advantage
6    Competitive advantages: proprietary ownership or access to
    valuable assets, resources or competencies
    a Competitive advantages are sustainable if they provide:
        • Customer loyalty, which can be built on brand or where
          there are high switching costs involved
        •    Positive feedback such as network externalities and
          experience effects
        • Pre-emption of key resources such as location or key
          personnel
       • Barriers to imitation: appropriation by one company of
       key capabilities that competitors will find difficult to
       access or to replicate
  b Modes of building competitive advantage:
    •         First-mover advantages: being among the first
       competitors to enter a given market
    •    Leveraging advantages: exploiting capabilities already
       built in other countries
7 Evolution of firms in the globalization process
   a There are three stages of progress:
    •     Export: Sales is the only element in the value chain
       which is set up in foreign countries. As the company
       progresses through the export stage, it invests in
       marketing subsidiaries to actively manage the marketing
       mix
    •      Multinational: The company manages a portfolio of
       relatively independent worldwide wholly owned
       subsidiaries or joint ventures
    •     Global: A global company integrates and coordinates
       its worldwide operations to take advantage of
       economies of scale, transfer of know-how and resource
       optimization; this leads to an interlocked set of value
       chain activities which falls broadly into three categories:
       global, regional and local
  b Liability of foreignness for global firms is the cost of being
    unfamiliar with the new environment as well as the cost of
    not having a local network, and the cost of having to
    manage operations from a distance. It needs to be
    compensated by a superior competitive advantage
8 The transferability of capabilities:
In the process of globalization, companies need to identify which
capabilities can be:
    a       easily transferred internationally into new territories
        without any change (transfer)
    b       can be transferred with some adaptation to local
        conditions (adapt)
    c     or have to be created from scratch when entering new
        countries (create)
9   Strategic alliances:
    a Companies usually need to acquire and complement their
    capabilities by setting up alliances
  b       Global strategic partnerships are often critical for
    achieving a global presence and building global competitive
    advantage
  c Forms of strategic alliance include:
    •     Global alliances to pool complementing capabilities to
       reach world markets or achieve a critical mass in R&D
    •       Local partnerships – joint ventures, franchises or
       licensing for market entry
    • Acquisitions
10 Global organization (see Chapter 15):
    a    Organization choice is dependent on the phases of global
        development:
        • Early export
        • Early multinational subsidiaries
        • Full multinational
        •Global
        •    Global multi-business b Three types of global
        organization can be distinguished:
      • Centralized hub
      • Decentralized federation
      • Matrix
    c Organizational dimensions cover:
          • Structure
          • System/processes
          • Culture
11       Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs):
          •   Only a small proportion of SMEs are engaged in global
            operations
          •     Their international exposure is essentially export or
            sourcing
          • Only 5–10 per cent of SMEs are truly international
          • SMEs face many barriers to internationalization
          •       Two major sources to overcome the barriers:
            government-led and company-led
12       Born global and born digital:
     a   Born global companies are firms that succeed in world
       markets without an established domestic base
     b Born digital companies are firms that from the start base
       their business model on internet-based transactions

Learning assignments
1     In 2020 the global distribution of sales in the industrial gas
     industry was as follows:




   The 2020 global distribution of sales and assets of the
insurance company Air Liquide is shown below:
1   What is Air Liquide’s position on a GCI/GRI mapping?
2  In your opinion, in which industries could the UK, Italy and
  Australia be considered ‘key’ countries?
3 What could be the benefits of positioning oneself as a
  standardized global niche differentiator (see Table 5.4)? What
  kind of competitive advantages does this require?
4 What are the capabilities needed to be a broad adaptive cost
  leader?
5 What are the ways to sustain competitive advantage?
6 What types of competitive advantage does being a first
  mover provide?
7 Sketch the mapping of the value chain for:
  a A consulting firm
  b An airline
  c A trading firm
  d A corporate and investment bank
  e An internet-based platform (e.g. Airbnb, Netflix)?
8 For each of the entities in Question 7, can you represent a
  possible global distribution of their value chain, as illustrated in
  Figure 5.11?

Key words
•   Born digital
•   Born global
•   Business strategy
•   Corporate strategy
•   Cost leadership
•   Differentiation
•   Global business strategy
•    Global Capability Index
•    Global corporate strategy
•    Global positioning
•    Global Revenue Index
•    Piggybacking
•    Value chain
•    Value curve
•    Value proposition

Web resources
  Business Week – Global business:
  https://www.bloomberg.com/businessweek
  Forbes Global Magazine online, with a section on companies
and strategies:
  http://www.forbes.com/forbesglobal/
  Harvard cases and Harvard Business Review reprints:
  http://www.harvardbusiness.org/
  McKinsey consulting business review:
  https://www.mckinsey.com/quarterly/overview
  Ernst & Young Consulting:
  http://www.ey.com/home
  Kearney Consulting:
  http://www.kearney.com/
  BCG Consulting:
  https://www.bcg.com/featured-insights/thought-leadership-
ideas


    Companion website

    Visit the companion website at bloomsbury.pub/global-
    strategic-management-5e for a multitude of weblinks and
    resources, self-test questions for revision and appendices.


Notes
1   Sogo Shoshas are large Japanese trading companies.
2   Dunning (1993).
3   Rugman (2005).
4    A similar calculation could be done by taking the major countries, but it becomes
   more compli-cated. However, it is perfectly possible to apply a similar methodology by
   taking the ten major world markets, for instance, or applying it at the level of a region
   (such as the distribution of sales in Asia Pacific among the key countries of the
   region).
5 Porter (1980).
6 This concept of the value chain was developed by Porter (1985, 1986).
7 Doz and Mikko (2008).
8 Stalk (1988).
9 Kim and Mauborgne (2007).
10 Jeffrey (1992).
11 Network effects exist when the customer base of a product or service is such that it
   induces other products or services providers to adopt it in their own value proposition,
   which in turn encourages new customers to buy the original product or service. This
   virtuous circle creates a positive loop that reinforces the company’s competitive
   position. The classic example of a network effect is Microsoft Windows operating
   system. Windows is an open system, which encourages various PC makers to make
   Windows-based machines, which in turn encourages software makers to produce
   Windows-based software. Thus more Windows- based software is available to
   customers who buy more Windows-based machines.
12 Ghemawat (2005); Rugman (2005).
13 Zaheer (1995).
14 Some authors have argued that the liability of foreignness does not mean that a firm
   will possess particularly different competitive advantages from the ones it has
   developed at home. See Niron and Buckley (2014).
15 Stopford and Wells (1972); Heenan and Perlmutter (1979); Prahalad and Doz (1987);
   Bartlett and Ghoshal (1989, 2000).
16 Goold et al. (1994).
17 OECD (2019).
18 Ibid., p. 57.
19 European Commission (2010).
20 OECD (201. Op Cit).
21 Lloyd-Reason and Mughan (2003). 30 OECD (2007).
22 Lloyd-Reason and Mughan (2003). 30 OECD (2007).
23 OECD (2009).
24 Zaheer (1995).
25 European Commission (2004).
26 Johanson and Vahlne (1990).
27 Monaghan et al. (2020).
28 Welch and Luostarinen (1988).
29   Rennie (1993).
30   McDougall and Oviatt (2000).
31   Knight (2015).
32   Stoyan (2012).


References and further reading
Anderson, K. and Pinilla, V. (2018) Wine Globalization A New Comparative History
   (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press).
Ansoff, H. L. (1965) Corporate Strategy (New York, NY: McGraw-Hill).
Bader, T. and Mazzarol, T. (2009) ‘Defining the born global firm: a review of the literature’,
   Paper ANZAM 2009-025.R1, presented at the Annual Australian and New Zealand
   Academy of Management Conference, 2–4 December.
Banalieva, E. R. and Dhanaraj, C. (2019) ‘Internalization theory for the digital economy’,
   Journal of International Business Studies, 50 (8): 1372–87.
Bartlett, C. A. and Ghoshal, S. (1989) Managing Across Borders: The Transnational
   Solution (Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press).
Bartlett, C. A. and Ghoshal, S. (2000) ‘Going global: lessons from late movers’, Harvard
   Business Review, 78 (2): 132–42.
Besanko, D., Dranove, D., Shanley, M. and Schaefer, S. (2007) The Economics of
   Strategy (New York, NY: John Wiley).
Carr, C. (2020), Global Oligopolies: A Key Idea for Business and Society (Milton Park,
   UK: Routledge, Taylor & Francis Group).
Collis, D. J. and Carr, C. (2011) Should You have a Global Strategy?, MIT Management
   Review, Fall.
Davidson, W. H. (1982) Global Strategic Management (New York, NY: John Wiley).
Djärf, T. and Engström, J. (2003) Piggybacking as a method of international market entry,
   Department
of Business Administration and Social Sciences Division of Industrial Marketing, Lulea
   University of Technology: 141SHU.
Doremus, P. N., Pauly, L. W., Reich, S. and Keller, W. W. (1999) The Myth of the Global
   Corporation (Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press).
Doz, Y. L. and Mikko, K. (2008) Fast Strategy: How Strategic Agility Will Help You to Stay
   Ahead of the Game (Philadelphia, PA: Pearson Education, Wharton School
   Publishing).
Dunning, J. H. (1993) Multinational Enterprises and the Global Economy (Harlow:
   Addison-Wesley).
European Commission (2004) Internationalisation of SMEs (Luxembourg: Office for
   Official Publications of the European Communities).
European Commission (2010) Internationalisation of European SMEs. Final Report
   (Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities).
Faulkner, D. O. and Campbell, A. (2003) The Oxford Handbook of Strategy, I and II
   (Oxford: Oxford University Press).
Freeman, S., Edwards, R. and Schroder, B. (2006) ‘How smaller born-global firms use
   networks and alliances to overcome constraints to rapid internationalization’, Journal of
   International Marketing, 14 (3): 33–63.
Ghemawat, P. (2005) ‘Regional strategies for global leadership’, Harvard Business
   Review, 83 (12): 98–108.
Ghemawat, P. (2007) Redefining Global Strategy, Crossing Borders in a World Where
   Differences Still Matter (Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press).
Ghemawat, P. (2018) The New Global Road Map Enduring Strategies for Turbulent
   Times (Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press).
Goold, M., Campbell, A. and Alexander, M. (1994) Corporate-Level Strategy (New York,
   NY: John Wiley).
Hamel, G. and Prahalad, C. K. (1985) ‘Do you really have a global strategy?’, Harvard
   Business Review, 63: 139–48.
Heenan, D. and Perlmutter, H. (1979) Multinational Organization Development (Boston,
   MA: Addison-Wesley).
Hennart, J. F. (2019) ‘Digitalized service multinationals and international business theory’,
   Journal of International Business Studies, 50 (8): 1388–400.
International Finance Corporation (2014) MSME Country Indicators 2014: Toward a
   Better Understanding of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises.
   https://smefinanceforum.org/data-sites/msme-country-indicators (accessed 9 June
   2017).
Jeffrey, W. (1992) ‘How sustainable is your competitive advantage’, Californian
   Management Review, 34 (3): 29–51.
Johanson, J. and Vahlne, J. E. (1990) ‘The mechanisms of internationalization’,
   International Marketing Review, 7 (4): 11–24.
Kelly, N. (2020) ‘Looking for new global markets? Bigger isn’t always better’, Harvard
   Business Review. https://hbr.org/2020/11/looking-for-new-global-markets-bigger-isnt-
   always-better (accessed 1 February 2022) .
Kessler, B. (2020) Global Strategy for a De-globalising World, INSEAD Knowledge.
   https://knowledge.insead.edu/blog/insead-blog/global-strategy-for-a-de-globalising-
   world-14781 (accessed 1 February 2022).
Kim, W. C. and Mauborgne, R. (2007) Blue Ocean Strategy: How to Create Uncontested
   Market Space and Make the Competition Irrelevant (Boston, MA: Harvard Business
   School Press).
Kim, W. C. and Mauborgne, R. (2017), Blue Ocean Shift (Boston, MA: Harvard Business
   School Press).
Knight, G. (2015) ‘Born global firms: evolution of a contemporary phenomenon’, in S. Zou,
   H. Xu and L. H. Shi (eds), Entrepreneurship in International Marketing (Advances in
   International Marketing), 25, 3–20 (Bingley: Emerald).
Liesch, P., Steen, M., Middleton, S. and Weerawardena, J. (2007) Born to Be Global: A
   Closer Look at the International Venturing of Australian Born Global Firms (Australian
   Business Foundation).
Lloyd-Reason, L. and Mughan, T. (2003) ‘Competing effectively in international markets:
   identifying need, sharing best practice and adding value to the Eastern Region through
   skills and knowledge transfer’, Final Report for the East of England Development
   Agency, web.anglia.ac.uk/anet/ faculties/laibs/Research/docs/CEIM_FINAL_
   REPORT_Anglia.doc (accessed 16 June 2017).
McDougall, P. and Oviatt, B. M. (2000) ‘International entrepreneurship: the intersection of
   two research paths’, Academy of Management Journal, 43 (5): 902–6.
Mellahi, K., Meyer, K., Narula, R., Isurdu, I. and Verbeke, A. (2021) The Oxford Handbook
   of International Business Strategy (Oxford: Oxford University Press).
Monaghan, S., Tippman, E. and Coviello, N. (2020) ‘Born digitals: thoughts on their
   internationalization and a research agenda’, Journal of International Business Studies,
   51: 11–22.
Monteiro, L. F., Pimentel, M. and Carrick, A. M. (2020) Quinta do Vallado: From Douro to
   the World, INSEAD Case Study. https://publishing.insead.edu/case/quinta-do-vallado
  (accessed 1 February 2022).
Narula, R., Asmussen, C. G., Chi, T. and Kundu, S. K. (2019) ‘Applying and advancing
  internalization theory: the multinational enterprise in the twenty-first century’, Journal of
  International Business Studies, 50: 1231–52.
Niron, H. and Buckley, P. J. (2014) ‘Is competitive advantage a necessary condition for the
  emergence of the multinational enterprise?’, Global Strategy Journal, 4: 35–48.
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (2007) Enhancing
  the Role of SMEs in Global Value Chains, OECD Background Report (Paris: OECD).
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (2008) Removing
  Barriers to SME Access to International Markets (Paris: OECD Publishing).
  http://dx.doi.org/10.1787/9789264045866-en (accessed 8 June 2017).
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (2009) Top Barriers
  and Drivers to SME Internationalisation, Report by the OECD Working Party on SMEs
  and Entrepreneurship (Paris: OECD).
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (2012) Fostering
  SMEs’ Participation in Global Markets: Final Report, Centre For Entrepreneurship,
  SMEs and Local Development, Fe/Sme(2012)6/Final (Paris: OECD).
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (2019) OECD SME
  and Entrepreneurship Outlook 2019 (Paris: OECD). https://doi.org/10.1787/34907e9c-
  en (accessed 1 February 2022).
Ohmae, K. (1985) Becoming a Triad Power (New York, NY: McKinsey).
Porter, M. E. (1980) Competitive Strategy: Techniques for Analyzing Industries and
  Competitors (New York, NY: Free Press).
Porter, M. E. (1985) Competitive Advantage. Creating and Sustaining Superior
  Performance (New York, NY: Free Press).
Porter, M. E. (1986) Competition in Global Industries (Boston, MA: Harvard Business
  School Press).
Prahalad, C. K. and Doz, Y. L. (1987) The Multinational Mission: Balancing Local
  Demands and Global Vision (New York, NY: Free Press).
Rennie, M. W. (1993) ‘Global competitiveness: born global’, McKinsey Quarterly, 4: 45–
  52.
Rugman, A. M. (2005) The Regional Multinationals: MNEs and Global Strategic
  Management (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press).
Rugman, A. M. and Almodóvar, P. (2011) ‘The born global illusion and the regional nature
  of international business’, in R. Ramamurti and N. Hashai (eds), The Future of Foreign
  Direct Investment and the Multinational Enterprise (Research in Global Strategic
  Management, 15 (Bingley: Emerald), 251–69.
Russ, M. and Jones, J. K. (2012) ‘International virtual industry clusters and SMEs: early
  process policy recommendations’, in K. I. Westeren (ed.), Foundations of the
  Knowledge Economy: Innovation, Learning and Clusters, 214–33 (Cheltenham:
  Edward Elgar).
Stalk, G. (1988) ‘Time – the next source of competitive advantage’, Harvard Business
  Review, 66: 41–51.
Stopford, J. and Wells, L. (1972) Strategy and Structure of Multinational Enterprises
  (New York, NY: Basic Books).
Stoyan, T. (2012) ‘Global from the start: the characteristics of born-global firms in the
  technology sector’, Technology Innovation Management Review, 2 (3): 5.
Terpstra, V. and Chwo-Ming, J. (1990) ‘Piggybacking: a quick road to internationalisation’,
  International Marketing Review, 7 (4).
Welch, L. S. and Luostarinen, R. (1988) ‘Internationalization: evolution of a
  concept’, Journal of general management, 14 (2): 34–55.
Zaheer, S. (1995) ‘Overcoming the liability of foreignness’, Academy of Management
  Journal, 38 (2): 341–63.
Chapter 6

Assessing countries’ attractiveness




  At the end of the chapter you will be able to:

  •   Organize a complete assessment of market opportunities and
    industry structure in a country
  • Understand and value various types of risks involved in operating
    in a country
  • Compare different countries as investment opportunities



Introduction
Within the overall framework of their global strategy firms have to
choose the geographical locations where they will set up operational
assets. This kind of decision, known as the ‘entry’ decision, demands
that firms take into consideration several factors (Figure 6.1):
Figure 6.1 The foreign market entry decision

•    First, there is the need to assess the attractiveness of the country,
   either in absolute terms or relative to another country. This is generally
   known as ‘country attractiveness analysis’.
•     Second, there is the need to decide on the form of entry. This is
   generally known as ‘entry strategy’.
In this chapter, we will concentrate on assessing a country’s
attractiveness, while in Chapter 7 we will discuss entry strategies.
   Country attractiveness is a function of the market and resources
prospects, the competitive context and the risks of operating in a
country.
   This chapter presents a framework for assessing market
attractiveness as well as a country’s risks.

Why is a country attractive?
Theoretically, a country will be attractive to foreign investors if, by
investing in that country, they get a return that is equal to or higher than
their risk adjusted weighted cost of capital. In fact, the foreign
investment decision is fundamentally the same as any investment
decision. If we apply the concept to a business investment (as opposed
to a financial portfolio investment of securities), the basis behind the
decision to invest (or not) is embodied in three key questions:
1    Are the market and resources prospects, and the competitive
    conditions, in a particular country such that given that company’s pre-
    existing competitive advantages, the business is likely to generate a
    return equal to or higher than the cost of capital?
2  What are the favourable or problematic characteristics of the
  socioeconomic and political context within that country for achieving
  an economic return?
3 Are the risks of operating in this country acceptable for the
  shareholders and employees?

  The fundamental question of a foreign investment thus falls into the
general framework of opportunities and risks analysis, as shown in
Figure 6.2.




Figure 6.2 General investment framework

   Although foreign investments fall into the general category of an
opportunities/risks trade-off, the assessment of the international context
raises some challenging issues. Many scholars, consultants and
practitioners have proposed methodologies for country assessments.
Online Appendix 6.1 summarizes the most prominent approaches, which
give relative rankings or scores to countries according to different
economic, political and social criteria. What we propose here is an
analysis of the various dimensions that contribute to country
attractiveness. Insert 6.1 gives a short description of an alternative
model of dimensions frequently used.
   In this chapter we will use the following four broad categories:

•    Market and resources opportunities
•    Competitive context
•    Socioeconomic, political, environmental and cultural distances
•    Country risks.

   One has to bear in mind first that market and competitive opportunities
vary according to the type of industry, and risks affect them differently.
For instance, a heavy industry demanding a large investment in fixed
assets will be more vulnerable to political risks while a service business
with a low financial exposure will be less affected. Generalizations are
thus difficult to make. Secondly, the merit of a country is first evaluated
in absolute terms to check whether it meets minimum requirements for
opportunities versus risks, and then it is generally compared with other
countries having similar features. For instance, a company may evaluate
investing in Chile, and then compare Chile with Argentina; Thailand may
be compared with the Philippines, France with the UK or Germany, and
India with China.


    Insert 6.1 Pestel: An alternative model of
    analysis
    Introduced initially as ETPS by Professor Aguilar in his book
    ‘Scanning the Business Environment’ (Aguilar 1967), the PEST,
    which later on became PESTEL, is an analytical framework used to
    analyse environments before making strategic decisions. The
    components of this framework are:

    1   Political
    2   Economical
    3   Social
    4   Technological
    5   Environmental
    6   Legal

    In the present chapter those elements are presented in a different
    format.



Market, resources and industry opportunities
When looking at a country’s attractiveness, businesses need to consider
its market, resources and industry opportunities, as shown in Figure 6.3.




Figure 6.3 Framework for assessment of a country’s market, resources and industry
attractiveness

  Market opportunities assessment measures the potential demand in
the country for the products or services of the firm:

•    Market size
•   Market growth
•   Quality of demand.

Resources opportunities:

•   Natural resources
•   Human resources
•   Infrastructure and support industries resources.
•   Technology resources.

Industry opportunities assessment measures how easy it is to compete
in the country:

•   The nature of the competitive climate
•   The nature of the industry’s competitive structure
•   Any investment incentives granted by governments.

Assessing market opportunities
The classic tools of market forecasting and analysis are presented here,
in a logical sequence.

Broad assessment of the overall demand, given
macroeconomic data

In many instances, this broad assessment uses some sort of correlation
between macroeconomic social or institutional indicators, such as GDP
per capita, with some measure of consumption of certain products.
Table 6.1 gives some of the most frequently used macroeconomic
indicators. Applying forecast GDP growth figures given by international
financial organizations such as the World Bank, IMF or OECD gives a
crude estimate of the anticipated size of the market.
   Figure 6.4 gives a graphical representation of mobile subscriptions as
a function of GDP per capita and Figure 6.5 shows the production of
cement. In the case of smartphones, the correlation between the two
indicators is 0.85 for mobile subscription, indicating that the overall
economic standard of the country ‘drives’ smartphone ownership and
utilization. However, we can observe some variations between countries.
This may be explained by differences in government policies and social
behaviour. In the case of cement the correlation is 0.36 and the
relationship is not linear. Emerging countries generate a high level of
demand for cement due to their need to build infrastructure. After a peak
in economic development, new infrastructure is needed less.




Figure 6.4 Relationship between GDP per capita and mobile subscriptions per 100 people, 2019
(R = 0.85)
Source: Authors’ own construction using data from World Bank: World Development Indicators
2019.
Figure 6.5 Relationship between GDP per capita and the production of cement, 2019 (R = 0.36)
Source: Authors’ own, based on data from World Bank, World Development Indicators and United
States Geological Survey at https://pubs.usgs.gov/periodicals/mcs2020/mcs2020.pdf.

Table 6.1 Macro indicators used in international market assessments




Note: * PPP (purchasing power parity) calculations take into account differences in prices and cost
of living. Generally, developing countries can buy many more goods and services with one $ than
in the United States and therefore have a much higher GDP calculated with PPP than with market
exchange rates.


Plotting trends
As a first indicator, the macroeconomic correlation approach may give
some interesting insights into the potential size of a market. When a
country is vast and diverse it may be useful to refine the assessment at
regional or even urban centre level. When it is used in combination with
other factors, such as the degree of urbanization, climatic conditions,
income distribution, lifestyles and saving rates, it may give a more
precise model. Plotting trends for comparable countries (in terms of
economic conditions, economic factors and so on) also gives an insight
into the potential future demand, on a per capita basis as well as in
absolute value.

The middle-class effect

The demand for most of the mass consumer goods and their related
inputs is often triggered by the presence of an affluent middle class. In
Chapter 2 the importance of an economically strong middle class in
emerging markets was described. Figure 6.6 illustrates the ‘middle-class
effect’, showing that there is strong demand elasticity compared to
population and GDP growth for durable consumer goods. The middle-
class effect is due to the skewed nature of the income distribution in
emerging countries. According to a joint World Bank and Australian
Government Report about Indonesia, the 39 million (18 per cent of the
total population) middle-class households in 2002 grew to 54 million (20
per cent of the total) in 2019. Figure 6.7 illustrates the middle-class
effect in this country, showing that the share of household consumption
by the middle class grew from 20 per cent to 42 per cent.
Figure 6.6 The ‘middle-class effect’
Note: With an increase of 20 per cent of GDP, the middle class increases by 66 per cent.




Figure 6.7 Illustration of the middle-class effect in Indonesia between 2002 and 2019
Sources: Authors’ own figure, using data from various World Bank Development Indicators (2019);
World Bank and ‘Aspiring Indonesian: the Expanding Middle Class’, September 2019,
https://www.worldbank.org/en/country/indonesia/publication/aspiring-indonesia-expandingthe-
middle-class (accessed 1 February 2022).


Quality of demand

Quality of demand describes the nature and diversity of market
segmentation prevalent in a country, and the profile of the customer
value curve (as defined in Chapter 5) in each segment. Marketers and
strategists generally distinguish two generic segments: ‘low end’ and
‘high end’ (Figure 6.8).




Figure 6.8 Market segmentations

  In developing countries (bottom left part of Figure 6.8), the bulk of the
market comprises a large undifferentiated, price-sensitive segment, co-
existing with a growing, more differentiated middle-class segment. In
mature, advanced economies, segmentation is more diverse in societies
that are essentially middle class (bottom right of Figure 6.8). However, in
practice, as economies develop, markets become more sophisticated
than this simple dual segmentation implies.
  On the basis of demand characteristics countries can generally be
grouped into four major clusters:

1  Developing countries, characterized by low income per capita and
  low growth: most sub-Saharan nations (except Nigeria and South
  Africa), e.g. Mauritania, Haiti, Yemen.
2 Emerging countries such as Indonesia, Thailand, Nigeria, with high
  growth rate and still relatively low income per capita, but growing
  fast.
3 Fast industrializing economies, characterized by high growth and
  moderate to high wealth: China, Brazil, Mexico, South Africa.
4 Relatively low-growth/high-wealth industrialized OECD countries
  such as North America, Western Europe and Japan.

  The market characteristics of these clusters are described in Table
6.2.
Table 6.2 Characteristics of demand according to country life cycle clusters




Assessing resource opportunities
The resources that attract foreign investors fall into three broad
categories:

1   Natural resources
2   Human resources
3   Infrastructure and support industries resources.

Natural resources

Countries that do not use their production for national consumption tend
to export raw materials, to promote processing by domestic companies
or to invite foreign firms to invest in processing and export. Governments
are very sensitive about the protection of their natural resources and
very often require controls on foreign activities in this domain by
negotiating production-sharing agreements as well as joint ventures. Oil
and gas are probably the most globally sensitive industries, given the
highly strategic nature of the commodity, the inherent risks of
exploration, the capital intensity of the investments and the geographical
location of the reserves. It is not by chance that the most sophisticated
country risks methodologies have been developed in this industry.1
Figure 6.9 represents selected resource-rich countries in graphical
format.
Figure 6.9 Natural resource per capita
Note: Natural capital is the sum of agricultural, mineral and energy resources calculated as the
present value generated by the resources.

Source: Lange, Wodon and Carey (2018). License: Creative Commons Attribution CC BY 3.0 IGO.

   A particular type of natural resource is geographical location which,
combined with good infrastructure and support services and industry,
may give to certain countries or regions within a country the role of a
‘hub’ or a regional centre. Singapore, located at the end of the Strait of
Malacca; Hong Kong, located at the door to continental China; Brussels
for the EU; and Miami for Latin America have all developed as hubs
based on their geographical location.

Human resources

The quality and cost of labour was the cause of the migration of
international investments that took place in the 1950s and 1960s.
Offshore factories in Southeast Asia and Latin America were set up in
Export-Processing Zones (EPZs) for the production and assembly of
labour-intensive products. International sourcing under the form of
original equipment manufacturing (OEM) or straight procurement gave
an opportunity for local companies in Japan in the 1950s, in Korea,
Taiwan and Brazil in the 1960s, Singapore, Hong Kong and Tunisia in the
1970s, and China, Vietnam and India in the 1980s to develop
manufacturing volume and competencies and to establish their
international presence.
   In practice, two human resource elements are attractive: the skills of
the workforce and the unit cost of labour. Figure 6.10 shows that there
is some correlation between those two attributes (R = 0.84), but one
can see that countries in the upper-right-hand quadrant that benefit from
the highest level of education and the best combination of productivity
related to pay have received the highest foreign investment per capita.
This indicates that the countries that have been able to combine the best
mix of productivity and quality of labour have been seen as attractive for
foreign investors.
Figure 6.10 Pay and productivity and skills of current workforce
Note: * This measure (score from 0 to 100), computed by the World Economic Forum, assesses
the extent to which pay is related to productivity. It is a proxy for assessing the unit cost of
production. High pay with poor productivity would result in a high cost per unit (as seen in the top-
left part of the graph). Conversely, low pay with high productivity would indicate a low cost per unit
(in the bottom-right quarter). The vertical axis measuring the quality of education is a measure of
the quality of work.

Sources: Authors’ own, based on World Economic Forum (2015–2019) for rankings; UNCTAD
(2016) for statistics.

   Countries like China or India that were relying on low labour cost in the
1980s have increased their productivity and their educational system to
move to the upper-right quadrant to high value-added production. Since
the mid-1980s, India, the Philippines and to a certain extent China have
tried successfully to strengthen the production of computer software,
particularly in the data capture segments. India, for instance, has
focused its attractiveness on offering international companies a
combination of low labour costs but highly skilled computer software
personnel. Please also see section on the Global Talent Competitiveness
Index (GTCI) in Chapter 13.

Infrastructure and support industry resources

The third type of resource that can be of interest to foreign investors is
the quality of communication and logistics infrastructures, as well as the
availability of supporting industries and services. Table 6.3 shows the ten
highest and ten lowest countries in terms of quality of various types of
infrastructure, as reported by the World Economic Forum.
Table 6.3 Quality of infrastructures
Source: Author’s own, based on data from World Economic Forum (2020).


Competitive context
The objective of this section is to determine the profitability potential of a
presence in a country given its industry and competitive structure and
the incentives provided by government to encourage foreign investments.

Industry and competitive structure

Professor Michael Porter proposed the concepts and techniques of
industry analysis for strategic decision making in his seminal book
Competitive Strategy (1980). According to Porter there are five forces
that determine the long-term profitability potential of an industry. It is
beyond the scope of this chapter to describe in detail the various forces
that are presented in Porter’s original work, as well as in other classic
textbooks on business strategy, but in Table 6.4 we summarize Porter’s
five forces and their implications for international business entry. We
have also added a sixth force – government intervention.
Table 6.4 Porter’s industry analysis as applied to international business entry


 Porter’s five forces [plus one]                    Relevance for international
                                                    business entry
 Intensity of rivalry When                          Rivalry increases when market
 competition is ‘cut-throat’ due to                 growth is starting to slow down,
                                                    and windows of opportunity are
overcapacity and lack of              closing. This phenomenon is
differentiation of barriers to exit   visible in countries such as China
                                      where overcapacity is present in
                                      many industries

Entry barriers Those elements         Entry barriers can be increased
that make it costly, difficult or     by licensing policy or government
sometimes impossible to enter an      actions. Distribution networks,
industry                              location issues, incumbent
                                      competitive positions, as well as
                                      cultural specificities are all likely to
                                      affect entry costs

Suppliers’ bargaining power
The negotiating power of suppliers    Suppliers’ bargaining power is
to impose their price and             somewhat bigger in protected
conditions over an industry’s         economies where raw materials
incumbents                            are in the hands of state
                                      monopolies or when there is a
                                      scarcity of skilled labour or of
                                      intermediate suppliers of goods
                                      and services. Suppliers’
                                      bargaining power is also greater
                                      when governments adopt a ‘local
                                      content’ policy

Buyers’ bargaining power
The negotiating power of buyers       Buyers’ bargaining powers may
to deny any price increase from       also be stronger when distribution
industry’s incumbents and to shift    networks are tightly controlled, as
easily from one supplier to           in the case of Japan
another

Substitutes
New technologies or new business In international markets
models generate alternatives to  substitution may come from new
 existing markets. This may create              global competitors developing
 market disruption of demand for                new technologies or business
 existing incumbents and induce                 models that disrupt traditional
 higher rivalry. Ultimately,                    competition
 incumbents may disappear

 Government policies
 Governments may introduce                      Government policies may
 artificial entry barriers by putting           influence profitability and
 special constraints on foreign                 competitiveness through
 investors. Alternatively,                      preferential treatment, price
 governments may lower entry                    control, taxation and so on
 barriers by deregulating or
 subsidizing factory costs

Source: Authors’ own, based on arguments in Porter (1980).


The country ‘diamond’

Porter also argued that countries or regions within countries (what he
calls ‘clusters’) can build competitive advantages that make them
attractive for business development in certain industries.2 He
distinguishes four major drivers of national competitive advantage which
constitute the country or regional ‘diamond’:

1  The natural endowment such as natural, human, capital, physical,
  technological and administrative or scientific resources.
2 The quality of the demand: whether customers are demanding on
  quality, fostering the competitiveness of the firm serving them.
3 Vigorous competition: whether competitors stimulate each other.
4    The presence of supporting industries: whether there is a pool of
    qualified product and service suppliers that enhance the quality and
    competitiveness of firms operating in this country. Also, whether there
    are clusters of successful firms in a particular industry. Porter’s
    examples of successful clusters were the German printing press
    industry, the US patient monitoring industry, the Italian ceramic tile
industry, the Japanese robotics industry, the French aerospace
industry or the Taiwanese micro-computer industry. The following
Mini-case about TAG Heuer illustrates the fact that Switzerland was a
‘country diamond’ for the watch industry, hence why TAG Heuer has
been historically located there. TAG Heuer developed a presence in
California, a ‘country diamond’ cluster for the digital industry in the
Silicon Valley, for its connected watch, forming a cross-cluster
collaboration.




MINI-CASE 6.1

TAG Heuer

In 2014, TAG Heuer, a Swiss luxury watchmaker and part of the
LVMH group (Louis Vuitton Moët Hennessy) entered into the
connected watch market driven by its CEO Jean-Claude Biver and
the Head of Product Development, Guy Sémon. With no market
research or help from external consultants they surged ahead in the
new watch development. This was in response to the introduction of
connected devices, in particular the Apple Watch. Based in La
Chaux-de-Fonds, the cradle of Swiss watchmaking and a UNESCO
World Heritage Site, TAG Heuer was located amid Alpine pastures
at an altitude of 1,000 metres. With sales of approximately 600,000
watches and revenues of approximately €750 million in 2015, Biver
was enthusiastic about entering a high-growth market that could
bring new customers and rejuvenate the brand. However, embracing
digital was potentially a paradigm change for TAG Heuer and for the
Swiss watch industry more broadly.
   Biver had helped save the Swiss watch industry when quartz
watches largely replaced mechanical watches in the 1970s and
1980s. In 2004, he became CEO of Hublot, a niche brand which
turned into a 100 million Swiss franc business within two years and
was bought by LVMH in 2008. When he was made president of
TAG Heuer in 2014, he immediately replaced the ‘old guard’ with a
new era of management. He had a start-up mentality, recognizing
the need for agility and speed. While the Swiss watch industry was
divided as to how the market would react to the launch of the Apple
iWatch, at TAG Heuer, Sémon, a R&D guru in the watch industry,
recognized that TAG Heuer lacked the technology to fully develop
the connected watch and would have to find external partners. He
was also convinced it would be a transformational project for the
company. Biver saw the onset of smart-watches as both an
opportunity and a threat. They sought help from Silicon Valley and
after a couple of visits partnered with Intel for the microprocessor
and Google for the operating system. In March 2015 the
partnership was announced at the Baselworld watch and jewellery
show which attracted huge media attention and speculation.

Breaking into the luxury markets

Technical giants like Apple had been trying to break into the luxury
sector to understand more about the intangible value of brands such
as TAG Heuer. Digital autocrats concentrated on technical features
of an object whilst purveyors of luxury preferred the art and emotion
of a product. Apple had tried to move into the high-value sector by
creating the illusion of scarcity to increase demand. But, despite its
best efforts, including attempts to ‘poach’ employees from high-end
Swiss watchmakers and successfully luring TAG Heuer’s sales
director onto its iWatch launch team, its products remained at a
lower price point than its luxury competitors.

Silicon Valley and TAG Heuer

Swiss watchmakers produced watches that were art. They
cultivated their image as organizations capable of producing quality
at the highest level over generations. Value came from superior
workmanship, artistic technique and other intangibles inherent to
luxury brands. When TAG Heuer approached Silicon Valley it
brought with it an ability to capture these intangible qualities and
charge more than $100,000 for a device that tells the time. From
   TAG Heuer, companies in the Valley could learn about brand
   positioning and gain an understanding of how consumers value
   luxury – a mutually beneficial partnership. When the partnership
   between Intel and Google, the Silicon Valley giants, and TAG Heuer
   was announced in March 2015, industry experts noted the mutual
   benefits of this union between the luxury and digital segments. The
   launch of the TAG Heuer Connected watch – the first ‘Luxury
   Android wear’ – later that year attracted massive media coverage.
   The product sold out in the United States within forty-eight hours,
   with a price tag of $1,500 per piece. Biver noted in a presentation in
   May 2017 that ‘These customers told us they were buying not just
   the technology but the exclusivity, status and prestige.’

   Questions:

   1  Does TAG Heuer have the capabilities to develop a connected
     watch? If yes, list these elements.
   2 Should other Swiss brands compete in the connected watch
     market? List reasons why and why not.
   3 What is the importance of the ‘Swiss Made’ label for the
     connected watch segment?
   Note: This Mini-case is based on the INSEAD case studies: L. F. Monteiro and A-M. Carrick,
   ‘The TAG Heuer Carrera Connected Watch (A) and (B): Swiss Avant-Garde for the Digital
   Age’, INSEAD Case Study No. 6291, https://publishing.insead.edu/case/tag-heuer-a>,
   https://publishing.insead.edu/case/tag-heuer-carrera-connected-watch-b-swiss-avant-
   garde-digital-age (accessed 1 February 2022).




Government incentives

In order to attract foreign investors, governments have designed and
implemented a series of incentives: fiscal, financial, competitive and
operational.3 These incentives are summarized in Table 6.5.
Table 6.5 Major types of incentive for foreign investments


 Type of            Nature of incentive
fiscal
incentive
Tax          •    Tax amnesty for a limited period
reduction    •    Ability to write off losses against profits after the end
                 of the tax amnesty period
             •    Reduced tax rate
             •    Accelerated depreciation
             •    Reduction in social security contributions
             •    Special deductions from taxable incomes for certain
                 types of activities (social, R&D, etc.)
             •    Exemption from property taxes or other special taxes
             •    Reduction of tax base on local content or
                 employment levels
             •    Income tax exemption/reduction for expatriate
                 personnel

Imports     • Exemption from import duties and value added taxes
and exports   for raw materials, essential equipment and parts
            • Exemption from export duties
            • Tax credits on domestic sales based on export
              performance

Financial    •    Subsidies of all kinds
incentives   •    ‘Sweetener loans’
             •    Guaranteed loans
             •    Export credits
             •    Equity participation
Competitive •     Protection against imports
incentives  •     Capacity regulation
            •     Monopolistic position
            •     Preferential purchases
Operational •   Preferential rates: rents, land, power, telecoms, etc.
incentives  •   Assistance for market studies
            •   Utilization of public services or government agencies
               for company operations
             • Secondment of personnel
                   •  Training centres
                   •  Access to infrastructure programmes: roads, ports,
                     airports, etc.
                   • Access to public–private partnerships
                   • Access to science parks

Source: Authors’ own, based on a framework in the text of UNCTAD (1996) with additions.


Impact of incentives on foreign investor behaviour

A series of research studies on the role of incentives in foreign
investment decisions has shown that their role is limited.4 Market
attractiveness, competitive conditions and resource endowments are
more important than incentives, but if those conditions are comparable in
several locations, incentives may play a positive role in the decision to
invest in one country in particular.

Environmental and sustainable issues

As mentioned in Chapter 4, sustainable and environmental issues are
becoming strategically important for firms. As a consequence, in
assessing the attractiveness of a country multinational firms should
consider whether the business under consideration will affect their
sustainable development strategies. The elements under consideration
are for instance:
  Should a pulp and paper company invest in a country being lenient or
encouraging deforestation without reforestation?

•  Should one invest in a country favouring child employment?
•  Should one invest in a country practising ethnic discrimination?
•   Should an agriculture company invest in a country where agriculture
  is using vast numbers of pesticides?
•    Should an industrial company invest in a country where the power
  generation is still encouraging the use of CO2 emitting processes?


Socioeconomic, political and cultural distance
One of the main challenges of operating internationally is to maintain a
coherent strategy that reflects the fundamental competitive advantages
of the global firm, on one hand, and on the other, still to be able to adapt
to the specific environments in which the firm operates. Therefore, it is of
prime importance to assess how ‘distant’ the environment of the country
under consideration is from environments in which the firm already
operates. In the previous sections we have analysed the differences in
terms of market, resources and competition, but it is useful to look at the
institutional, political, social and cultural differences.
   Two models can be used:

•   Business system analysis
•   CAGE Distance Framework model.

Business system analysis

In Chapter 3 the model of business system analysis was presented.5
This model can be invaluable in assessing how the various dimensions of
governance, institutional fabric and social culture impact upon how much
a potential investor has to adopt a different way of doing business in the
targeted country.

The CAGE Distance Framework model

The CAGE Framework developed by Professor Pankaj Ghemawat6
aims at understanding and assessing the differences between two
countries (bilateral differences) or between a country and the rest of the
world (multilateral differences). Those differences are assessed in terms
of four distances: cultural, administrative, geographical and economic.
They are summarized in Figure 6.11.
Figure 6.11 Summary of the CAGE Distance Framework model
Source: Adapted from Ghemawat (2007).


Country risk analysis
The purpose of country risk analysis is to assess the probability that
adverse circumstances owing to political, economic or social actions will
negatively affect business performance.7 Country risks can be grouped
into four categories (see Figure 6.12):
Figure 6.12 Framework for country risk analysis

1    Political
2    Economic
3    Competitive
4    Operational.
•     Political risks are possible disruptions owing to internal or external
    events, or regulations resulting from the political action of
    governments or societal crisis and unrest. Political risks may affect
    business performance in various ways:
    —     One type of risk exposes shareholders’ value in terms of loss of
        capital or loss through the inability to repatriate dividends. This
        type of risk is associated with asset destruction linked to external
        or civil wars or riots, asset spoliation owing to expropriation or
      asset lock-in through funds being frozen or interdiction on capital
      transfer.
    — Another type of political risk lies in employees’ exposure linked to
      gangsterism, crime and kidnapping, as well as operational
      exposure linked to labour unrest, and racketeering or market
      disruptions, or supplies shortages linked to criminal activities.
•     Economic risks expose business performance to the extent that the
    economic business drivers can vary and therefore put profitability at
    risk. As an example, Figure 6.13 shows the growth rate of Hungary as
    compared to Czech Republic from 2000 to 2019. While the two
    countries had a similar annual growth rate (2.9 per cent against 2.6
    per cent), Hungary had more variability than Czech Republic
    (coefficient of variation of 1.04 against 0.89) and therefore ceteris
    paribus exhibited a higher economic risk.




Figure 6.13 Variability of economic growth, Hungary versus Czech Republic, 2000–2019
Source: Authors’ own figure using data from World Bank Economic Development Indicators,
https://databank.worldbank.org/home.aspx (accessed 1 February 2022).
•     Competitive risks are related to the non-economic distortion of the
    competitive context owing to cartels and networks as well as corrupt
    practices. This makes the competitive battlefield uneven and investors
    who base their competitive advantage on product quality and
    economics are at a disadvantage. Competitive risks are managed by
    the dominant general logic, which was defined by Prahalad and Bettis
    as ‘the way in which managers conceptualize the business and make
    critical resource decisions – be it in technologies, product
    development, distribution, advertising, or in human resource
    management’.8
•     Operational risks are those that directly affect the bottom line, either
    because government regulations and bureaucracies add costly
    taxation or constraints to foreign investors or because the
    infrastructure is unreliable.

  Figure 6.14 shows various countries’ scores in term of political and
economic risks. Both dimensions are clearly correlated.




Figure 6.14 Political and economic risks in selected countries
Source: Data from Country Risk Index, Fitch Connect (2019). Reproduced with permission of BMI.




Figure 6.15 Foreign direct investment and country risks, 2000–2019
Note: The coefficient of correlation between risk and FDI is 0.31, which is significant but not high.

Source: Authors’ own figure, based on data from UNCTAD (2019) and Fitch Connect (2019).

   The impact of country risks on investment decisions is not
straightforward. Whilst we can see in Figure 6.14 that foreign direct
investments are heavier in countries with lower levels of risk, some
countries such as China or Brazil, although perceived as relatively risky,
receive a significant amount of investment. This demonstrates that
companies are likely to accept a certain level of risk if other aspects of
attractiveness are present.

Putting it all together
The various factors presented in this chapter constitute the basic raw
materials for assessing whether a particular country is likely to offer
opportunities to conduct business safely and profitably. Such
assessments first require the collection of a large amount of information
and second, the capacity to collate information in a meaningful fashion.
  As an example of this analysis, Appendix 6.2 gives a short summary of
the differences between Turkey and Egypt for several indicators.

Data collection

Despite the fact that various databases and consultancy firms propose
statistical information and analyses, managers are often confronted with
problems of the relevance, quality and accessibility of strategic and
marketing intelligence specific to their industry. Macroeconomic data are
too broad, and managers need to complement them with their own
investigations. Various methods exist to assess country opportunities
and risks.
   The most traditional mode of collecting information is the Grand Tour
approach. This consists of sending a mission of several executives to
visit countries and meet government officials, bankers, journalists,
academics and other opinion makers or analysts. At the end of this
exercise, managers exchange notes and prepare a report comparing the
relative merits of countries. The advantage of the Grand Tour is that
company executives get a real feel for the local context and the
opportunity to focus on issues that are specific to the company’s
products or services. The disadvantages are the inherent superficiality of
the exercise, as well as the difficulty of cross-validation of information
owing to time pressures. For the information to be valuable and credible,
companies need to organize several Grand Tours and to complement
them with other forms of data collection and analysis. The exercise then
becomes quite costly, and for that reason many SMEs cannot afford it.
   The second method is to rely on diplomatic sources, commercial
attachés, professional organizations and foreign banking institutions.
Although less costly, this type of data-gathering lacks specificity and
depth. Information collected this way may suffer from lack of objectivity
since diplomats and bankers often have a vested interest in pushing
investments in the territories where they operate.
   The third method is to call on consultancy firms which specialize in
country risk and market analysis. The quality of the results depends
upon the quality of the relationship between the client (the firm) and the
service provider (the consultancy firm). It is important to ask specific
questions, otherwise the firm may be flooded with masses of irrelevant
data.
   Each approach has its own merit and they complement each other.
The Grand Tour approach is necessary to have a feeling about the
country, particularly if the company is not exposed at all to the country
through a distributor or an agent. The second approach is necessary
keeping in mind the bias described earlier. The third approach, the use
of a consultant, is often necessary when the investment involved is
complex and needs to be preceded by a preliminary investigation made
by the company either via a Grand Tour or by desktop research. The
company is then in a position to correctly specify the mandate given to
the consultant.

Consolidating the data

As the previous paragraphs have illustrated, several parameters shape
the opportunities and risks associated with countries. The combination of
these parameters generates various profiles that distinguish types of
country according to the attractiveness factors that interest foreign
investors. Countries under consideration can be grouped into clusters
that share similarities and in which the ultimate choice will depend on the
strategic ambition of the global firm and the relative importance attached
to the various factors.
   The criteria used for clustering countries according to demand
characteristics have been described earlier in this chapter, but demand
is not the only factor. Dimensions that can be used for clustering are:

•   Regional: Middle East, East Asia, South America, Southern Africa
  and so on
•  Demand characteristics (Table 6.2): growth, GDP/capita, quality of
  demand
•    Resources: natural, human, technological (Figures 6.9, 6.18 and
  Table 6.3)
•     Cultural and socio-political distance relative to the investor’s
  viewpoint (Table 6.6)
•   Risks: political, economic, competitive (Figure 6.3)
•    Ease of doing business and government support (Figure 2.10 and
    Table 6.5)

After completing this process, one will come up with different clusters
organized regionally, and within regions one may distinguish countries
fulfilling various types of strategic profile, as described earlier:

•    Hubs: countries that can serve as regional entry points and regional
    centres
•     Emerging giants: countries who by their size are of high strategic
    importance for investors
•    Fast-growing industrializing: countries that are offering a high
  potential for growth
• Industrialized OECD
•    Resource-rich countries in terms of natural, human or technological
    resources, which can also be part of the other categories.

Table 6.6 gives a clustering for the Asia Pacific region.
Table 6.6 Cluster characteristics, Asia Pacific
Notes: L = Low, M = Medium, H = High. * These countries may also qualify for other categories.




   MINI-CASE 6.2

   Izmir Industrial Electric: Exercise

   Izmir Industrial Electric (IZIEC) is a (fictional) Turkish medium-sized
   manufacturer of electronic data processing and office equipment
   including fibre optic data centre products, rack cabinets and power
   distribution. Its products are sold to industrial customers in more
   than fifty countries. Headquartered in Istanbul it employs 500
   associates including eighty engineers. As part of its strategic
   development plan the management decided to investigate the
   setting up of an assembly plant in Africa. Five countries were
   considered: Angola, Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria and South Africa. The
   following data was produced to feed the discussion of the
   management committee.
Angola is a vast country; its capital is Luanda and it has maintained
political stability since the end of the twenty-seven-year civil war in
2002. In 2010, a constitution established a presidential
parliamentary system. Despite significant progress on macro-
economic stability and structural reforms, Angola is still suffering the
effects of lower oil prices and production levels. The transformation
of a state-led oil economy to a private-sector-led growth model is a
complex and long-term process and the oil sector will continue to
play an important role during this transition period.

Kenya has the potential to be one of Africa’s success stories due to
its growing youthful population, a dynamic private sector, highly
skilled workforce, improved infrastructure, a new constitution and its
pivotal role in East Africa. Kenya has made significant political,
structural and economic reforms that have largely driven sustained
economic growth, social development and political gains over the
past decade.

A former territory of the British Empire, Ghana is the result of the
unification of four territories along the Gulf of Guinea and the
Atlantic Ocean. Ghana’s population is made up of a variety of
ethnic, linguistic and religious groups. It consistently ranks in the top
three countries in Africa for freedom of speech and press freedom,
with strong broadcast media; radio being the medium with the
greatest reach. Factors such as these provide Ghana with solid
social capital.

Nigeria obtained independence from Britain in 1960. After a series
of coups d’état a formal democracy was established and stabilized
in the early 2000s. Nigeria is facing an Islamist rebellion in the north
of the country. Located in central Africa, its 181 million people are
composed of myriad ethnic groups. English is the official language,
and 50 per cent of the population belong to the Muslim community
while 40 per cent are considered as Christian.

South Africa’s political transition is known as one of the most
remarkable political feats of the past century. Formed in 1910 from
separate states as an independent British dominion, it became a
republic in 1961, dominated by former British and Dutch settlers
known as Afrikaners. From 1948 to 1994 a policy of segregating
the population according to ethnic origin (apartheid) was strictly
enforced, in the face of growing international condemnation. A new
constitution was established in 1997, creating a multi-racial
parliamentary republic. Black Africans are the ethnic majority
followed by white Afrikaners and Asians. Christianity in various
forms is the dominant religion. There are eleven constitutionally
recognized official languages including English, Zulu, Xhosa and
Afrikaans.
Table 6.7 Country profiles
Questions:

1    On a first basic evaluation, which of these African countries do
    you think ZIEC is considering for investment?
2    In particular, can you evaluate the differences between Turkey
    and those countries as well as the opportunities and risks?
Sources: This exercise was written by the authors. The data is from World Bank Enterprise
Survey, World Bank Development Indicators, World Bank World Governace Indicators,
World Trade Statistics, Fitch Solutions Country Risks Index.


Summary and key points
1    Foreign investment decisions take into account:
    a    Country attractiveness
    b    Entry strategy (to be discussed further in Chapter 7)
2    A country’s attractiveness assessment is based on three
    dimensions:
    a Market, resources and competition
    b    Socioeconomic, political and cultural distance
    c    Country risks
3    A market opportunities assessment measures the potential
    demand in the country for a firm’s products or services based
    on:
    aMarket size and growth: function of macroeconomic, income
    distribution, lifestyle and government policy factors
  b Quality of demand: function of diversity of market segments
    and size of middle class
4 Demand characteristics of a country:
    a    Depend on the life cycle cluster to which the country
      belongs
    b Four types of country cluster:
        •     Developing countries
        •     Emerging countries
        •     Fast industrializing economies
        •     Industrialized countries
5   Resource availability:
    a         Natural resources: includes raw materials, mining,
        agricultural and geographical location
    b       Infrastructure and support industries resources
    c   Human resources: cost, productivity and quality of workforce
6    The competitive context determines the profitability potential of
    a company’s presence in a country given the characteristics of
    the industry competitive structure (Porter’s five forces of industry
    analysis framework plus government factors):
    a Intensity of rivalry
    b       New entrants and entry barriers
    c   Bargaining power of suppliers
    d       Bargaining power of customers
    e   Threat of substitutes
    f   Government regulations and incentives
7    Socioeconomic, political and cultural distance analyses assess
    how much a country is different from the investor’s country’s
    presence Two types of distance assessment:
        •     Business system analysis (see Chapter 3)
       •      The CAGE Distance Framework assessing cultural,
           administrative, geographical and economic distances
8    Country risk analysis assesses how adverse conditions may
    affect business performances Four types of risk:
        • Political risks:
           —       Employees’ exposure, gangsterism, kidnapping
               ○    Shareholders’ exposure
               ○Market disruption
       •    Economic risks: variability of economic factors
       •    Competitive risks: corruption, cartels
       •     Operational risks: infrastructure instability, availability of
           suppliers, constraints on local capital, local content or local
           employment
9   Data collection
Three methods: Grand Tour, diplomatic, professional and consulting
sources
10 Assessment is done by clusters of countries

Learning assignments
1  Take two countries of your choice and compare their country
  risk profiles.
2 What is the ‘middle-class effect’?
3   What determines the quality of demand?
4  What are the tools used by governments to promote foreign
  investments?
5 Can you give examples of a hub in Africa, an emerging giant in
  Latin America and a resource-rich country in Eastern Europe?
6 Make a CAGE analysis of Morocco, Romania and South Korea.
  What conclusions do you draw from the point of view of a South
  Korean firm willing to invest in an assembly plant in one of these
  two territories?
Key words
•   CAGE Distance Framework
•   Clusters
•   Country ‘diamond’
•   Country life cycle
•   Country risk analysis
•   ‘Grand Tour’
•   Hub
•   Incentives
•   Industry analysis
•   Macroeconomic indicators
•   Market opportunities
•   Market segmentation
•   ‘Middle-class effect’

Web resources
CIA factbook:
https://www.cia.gov/the-world-factbook/
Doing Business Data base:
https://www.doingbusiness.org/en/doingbusiness
Euromonitor Country Profiles:
https://www.euromonitor.com/countries
Fitch Solutions Country Risk:
https://www.fitchsolutions.com/products/country-risk
OECD Country Profiles:
https://www.oecd.org/regional/regional-policy/country-profiles.htm
UNCTAD Country Profiles:
https://unctadstat.unctad.org/countryprofile/en-gb/index.html
UNCTAD Statistics:
https://unctad.org/statistics
United Nations Human Development Programme:
http://hdr.undp.org/en/countries
World Bank country data:
https://data.worldbank.org/country
World Bank Development Indicators:
https://databank.worldbank.org/source/world-development-
indicators
World Bank Enterprise survey:
https://www.enterprisesurveys.org/en/enterprisesurveys
World Economic Forum:
https://www.weforum.org
World Resources Institute:
https://www.wri.org

Notes
1   See countries’ petroleum risk environment: http://www.riskworld.com (accessed 12 June
    2017).
2   Porter (1998).
3   UNCTAD (1996).
4   Guisinger (1985, 1992).
5   Witt and Redding (2014); see Chapter 3.
6   Ghemawat (2007).
7    Literature is abundant on country risk: Brewer (1985); Howell and Chaddick (1994: 70–
    90); Rogers (1997).
8   Prahalad and Bettis (1986, 1995).


References and further reading
Aguilar, F. (1967) Scanning the Business Environment (New York, NY: Macmillan).
Austin, J. E. (1990) Managing in Developing Countries: Strategic Analysis and Operating
  Techniques (New York, NY : Free Press).
Berry, H., Guillén, M. F. and Zhou, N. (2010) ‘An institutional approach to cross-national
  distance’, Journal of international business studies, 41 (9): 1460–80.
Beugelsdijk, S., Ambos, B. and Nell, P. C. (2020) ‘Conceptualizing and measuring distance
  in international business research: Recurring questions and best practice guidelines’, in
  Research methods in international business, 449–98 (Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan,
  Cham).
Beugelsdijk, S., Kostova, T., Kunst, V. E., Spadafora, E. and Van Essen, M. (2018) ‘Cultural
  distance and firm internationalization: A meta-analytical review and theoretical
  implications’, Journal of Management, 44 (1): 89–130.
Brewer, T. L. (ed.) (1985) Political Risks in International Business: New Directions for
  Research, Management and Public Policies (New York, NY: Praeger).
Cunha, O., Chenh, S. and Abida, R. (2013) Redefining Brazil’s Emerging Middle Class: How
   to Prepare for the Next Wave of Consumption Growth (Boston Consulting Group, BCG
   Perspectives). https://www.bcgperspectives.com/ (accessed 11 June 2017).
Farrell, D., Gerch, U. A. and Stephenson, E. (2006) ‘The value of China’s emerging middle
   class’, McKinsey Quarterly, Special edition: Serving the New Chinese Consumer, June.
Fitch Connect (2019), Country Risks & Industry Research.
   https://www.fitchsolutions.com/products/country-risk-and-industry-research (accessed 20
   October 2021).
Fitch Solutions (2021) Global Pharmaceutical & Healthcare Report Q2. Available from
   fitchsolution. com
Ghemawat, P. (2007) Differences across Countries: The Cage Distance Framework
   (Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press).
Guisinger, S. (1985) Investment Incentives and Performance Requirements (New York, NY:
   Praeger).
Guisinger, S. (1992) ‘Rhetoric and reality in international business: note on the effectiveness
   of incentives’, Transnational Corporations, 1: 111–23.
Guisinger, S. (2001) ‘From OLI to OLMA: incorporating higher levels of environmental and
   structural complexity into the eclectic paradigm’, International Journal of the Economics of
   Business, 8 (2): 257–72.
Howell, L. D. and Chaddick, B. (1994) ‘Models of political risk for foreign investment and
   trade: an assessment of three approaches’, Columbia Journal of World Business, Fall:
   70–90.
James, M. and Koller, T. M. (2000) ‘Valuation in emerging markets’, McKinsey Quarterly, 4.
Kelly, N. (2020): Looking for New Global Markets? Bigger Isn’t Always Better, Harvard
   University. https://hbr.org/2020/11/looking-for-new-global-markets-bigger-isnt-always-
   better (accessed 1 February 2022) .
Lange, G. M., Wodon, Q. and Carey, K. (eds) (2018) The Changing Wealth of Nations 2018:
   Building a Sustainable Future (Washington, DC: World Bank), doi:10.1596/978-1-4648-
   1046-6.
Lasserre, P. and Schütte, H. (1999) Strategies for Asia Pacific: Beyond the Crisis
   (Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan).
Monteiro, L. F. (2018) The Consummate Opportunities of Cross-Cluster Collaboration,
   INSEAD Knowledge.. https://knowledge.insead.edu/strategy/the-consummate-
   opportunities-of-cross-cluster-collaboration-7336 (accessed 1 February 2022).
Monteiro, L. F. and Carrick, A. M. (2017) ‘The TAG Heuer Carrera Connected Watch (A):
   Swiss Avant-Garde for the Digital Age’, INSEAD Case Study.
   https://publishing.insead.edu/case/tag-heuer-a (accessed 1 February 2022).
Monteiro, L. F. and Carrick, A. M. (2017) The TAG Heuer Carrera Connected Watch (B):
   Swiss Avant-Garde for the Digital, INSEAD Case Study.
   https://publishing.insead.edu/case/tag-heuer-carrera-connected-watch-b-swiss-avant-
   garde-digital-age (accessed 1 February 2022).
Porter, M. (1980) Competitive Strategy: Techniques for Analysing Industries and
   Competitors (New York, NY: Free Press).
Porter, M. (1998) The Competitive Advantage of Nations (New York, NY: Free Press).
Prahalad, C. K. and Bettis, R. A. (1986) ‘The dominant logic: a new linkage between diversity
   and performance’, Strategic Management Journal, 7 (6): 485–501.
Prahalad, C. K. and Bettis, R. A. (1995) ‘The dominant logic: retrospective and extension’,
   Strategic Management Journal, 16 (1): 5–14.
Rogers, J. (ed.) (1997) Global Risk Assessments: Issues, Concepts and Applications
   (Riverside, CA: Global Risk Assessment).
UNCTAD (United Nations Conference on Trade and Development) (2016), World Investment
   Report 2016: Investor Nationality: Policy Challenges (Geneva: United Nations
   Publications).
UNCTAD (United Nations Conference on Trade and Development) (2019), World Investment
   Report 2019: Special Economic Zones (Geneva: United Nations Publications).
UNCTAD (United Nations Conference on Trade and Development) (1996) Incentives and
   Foreign Direct Investment (Geneva: United Nations Publications).
UNCTAD (United Nations Conference on Trade and Development) (1996–2020) World
   Investment Reports (Geneva: United Nations Publications).
Witt, M. A. and Redding, G. (eds) (2014) The Oxford Handbook of Asian Business Systems
   (Oxford: Oxford University Press).
World Bank (2019) Aspiring Indonesian – the Expanding Middle Class.
   https://www.worldbank.org/en/country/indonesia/publication/aspiring-indonesia-expanding-
   the-middle-class (accessed 1 February 2022).
World Economic Forum (2015–2020) Global Competitiveness Report 2019.
   http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_TheGlobalCompetitivenessReport2019.pdf
   (accessed 13 April 2021).
https://www3.weforum.org/docs/GCR2018/05FullReport/TheGlobalCompetitivenessReport2
   018.pdf;
https://www3.weforum.org/docs/GCR2016-
   2017/05FullReport/TheGlobalCompetitivenessReport2016-2017_FINAL.pdf;
https://www3.weforum.org/docs/gcr/2015-2016/Global_Competitiveness_Report_2015-
   2016.pdf;
https://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_TheGlobalCompetitivenessReport2020.pdf
   (accessed 1 February 2022).


Journals
McKinsey Quarterly: https://www.mckinsey.com/quarterly/overview
TransnationalCorporations:https://unctad.org/Topic/Investment/Tran
snational-Corporations-Journal
The          World         Bank         Economic           Review:
https://academic.oup.com/wber/article-abstract/35/2/287/5607661?
redirectedFrom=fulltext
Chapter 7

Entry strategies




    At the end of the chapter you will be able to:

    •  Complete a full analysis of various entry alternatives
    •  Assess the advantages and disadvantages of alternative entry
      strategies in a real-life situation
    • Conduct a financial analysis of alternatives



Introduction
Having performed the analysis of a country’s attractiveness and
decided to enter, a company has to work out an entry strategy. This is
determined by four factors:

•       Entry objectives (what the company is looking for in that country)
•       Timing of entry (when to enter)
•    Mode of entry (what kind of operations and under which legal form
    to operate)
•    Pace of entry (degree of progressive commitment of resources in
    the country).

There may be four categories of objectives:

•   to develop the market
•   to access critical resources
•    to capture knowledge available in the country
•      to set up a regional or global centre for coordinating various
    activities.

The timing of entry can be critical for building sustainable competitive
advantage. First movers can capture initial advantages over
competitors, but run a variety of risks.
   The choice of a legal structure is contingent upon many external and
internal factors. There are six legal forms of entry:

•   wholly owned operations built from scratch
•   acquisitions
•   joint ventures
•   licensing or franchising
•   distributors’ agreements
•   representative office.

The advantages and disadvantages of each of these forms are
discussed.
   In addition to the timing of entry one may consider the sequence
and pace of entry. Entry into a foreign market can be assimilated to a
learning process (Johanson and Vahine 1977) by which the incumbent
firm accumulates knowledge about the country and increases
progressively its commitment of resources and adopts different modes
of entry over time depending upon the degree of familiarity with the
rules of business in the particular country.
   The chapter ends by looking at entry strategy as a ‘real option’, and
a numerical example is examined.
EXAMPLE 7.1 IKEA’s market-seeking entry strategy in India

IKEA, created in 1943 in Sweden as a mail order furniture retailer,
opened its first physical IKEA store in 1960. Customers could buy
packed Scandinavian style furniture which appealed to young couples.
Customers transported and assembled the furniture themselves. The
furniture was produced by external suppliers’ factories.
   Internationalization started with the opening in 1973 of the first store
in Zurich. It expanded progressively in Europe and Australia throughout
the 1970s and in the 1980s throughout North America and Asia. By
2015, with sales of €32.7 billion, IKEA had operations in 43 countries
with 328 stores in 28 countries, 33 distribution centres in 17 countries
and 43 production units in 11 countries. IKEA kept its basic concept
store design but had to make some adaptations such as the need to
provide delivery and installation. In 1974, it closed the first store it had
opened in Japan only to re-enter the country in 2006. The IKEA
internationalization policy was to enter countries as wholly owned
subsidiaries, resisting the idea of entering into joint ventures.

India

From the late 1980s IKEA had been sourcing furniture components in
India from around fifty suppliers. By 2006, the company considered
entering the country as a retailer and implanting several of its famous
blue-coloured IKEA stores. The main motivation was to take
advantage of the growing urban middle-class of Asian emerging
countries.
   One of the first hurdles in India was the regulation that limited the
implantation of foreign retailers. Single-brand retailers, such as IKEA,
could only set up a store if they entered a joint venture with a local
partner in which they were allowed a maximum of 50 per cent share.
In addition, there was a requirement to source at least 30 per cent of
the goods sold in a store locally. Given IKEA’s foreign investment
policy, the company backed off. Hoping for a future change of
government policy, the company undertook in-depth market research
in various cities including Mumbai, Delhi, Hyderabad and Bangalore.
The goal was to capture the key characteristics of living styles as well
as logistical systems.
   In 2012, the Indian government changed the joint venture
requirement and allowed 100 per cent ownership. This was followed in
2018 when it softened the 30 per cent local sourcing requirement. This
paved the way for the first IKEA store to open. Contrary to industry
observers’ beliefs, the city chosen was Hyderabad, the capital of the
state of Andrah Pradesh. With a metropolitan population of nearly 10
million people, it is the fifth largest urban economy in India with a
significant 30 per cent minority of Muslims.
   The year before the store’s opening, a cohort of seventy-five Indian
IKEA’s employees (called co-workers) were sent to Sheffield in the UK
to experience a new store opening. They also trained employees and
external artisans to assemble IKEA furniture (‘Do It Yourself’).
   The first store opening took place on 9 August 2018.



Why enter? Defining strategic objectives for a
country presence
There are four major types of strategic objectives, and they are not
necessarily independent of each other:

•   Market development
•   Access to resources
•   Learning
•   Coordination.


EXAMPLE 7.2 Cargill’s market- and resource-seeking entry
strategies
Cargill is a US privately owned global firm specializing in foodstuffs
and agricultural products. It operates in seventy countries with
150,000 employees. Its global investment is a combination of
resource-seeking and market-entry strategies. Major resource-
seeking investments can be found in Brazil (for cocoa and sugar),
Indonesia and Malaysia (for palm oil), Turkey (for cotton), Thailand
(for poultry) and Norway (for salmon), amongst many others. One
example of strong combination of market- and resource-seeking
strategy is provided by Cargill India where the company sells locally
produced foods and cooking oil, and exports corn, soybeans and
cotton.
   A company’s entry strategy involves answering three questions:

•   Why does the company want to enter the country?
•   When is it appropriate to enter?
•   How can it enter?


Market development objectives apply to those countries offering size
and growth opportunities. To a certain extent, all countries in the world
offer some kind of market opportunity as a function of their population
and income. Some countries, however, are more important than
others, owing to their size or the quality of their customer base. Those
countries are often called key countries; that is, countries in which a
presence is needed for long-term global competitiveness. For that
reason, China, the United States, Japan, Germany, France and the UK
are often considered to be key countries. Market development
objectives constitute the most common entry objectives.
   Objectives relating to access to resources are based on the
presence of a key resource – mineral, agricultural or human – that
contributes to competitive advantage. An investment in a resource-rich
country will essentially be made to exploit the resource by setting up
the appropriate operational asset – a mine, an exploration field, a
plantation, an assembly plant or a software centre.
   Learning objectives are the basis of investments in countries where
the industry is state of the art and in which a foreign investor gains
knowledge and competencies by being present, even if the long-term
market prospect is not favourable. Automobile companies set up
operations in Japan in the 1980s to be close to the network of car
manufacturers and component suppliers and to learn about their mode
of relationships. California, Washington State or Texas may similarly
be considered as learning grounds for the internet-based ‘new
economy’ (see Chapter 14), while companies dealing with fashion and
perfume may consider Paris or Milan as an investment site.
   Coordination objectives apply to hub countries where a presence is
justified for the regional coordination of activities thanks to their
location and infrastructure advantages. Clear examples are Singapore
in Southeast Asia and Hong Kong in the Far East where a large
number of global firms have set up their regional headquarters (see
Chapter 14 for the role of regional headquarters).
   Table 7.1 gives a summary of the four types of objectives and the
expectations of foreign investors in each category.
Table 7.1 Entry strategy objectives
When to enter? First mover, follower, or acquirer?
The timing of entry is contingent upon the window of opportunity as
well as the type of risk the company is willing to take.
   For market-based objectives, a window of opportunity is open when
the demand starts to become significant and the competitive context is
not yet well established. For resource-based objectives, the window is
open when rights of access are available and closed when
competitors have established a strong market presence or pre-
empted available resources. In such cases, only acquisitions or
innovation can allow entrants to open the window. The concept of a
window of opportunity is not unique to international entry. It applies
also to new product or service development. In the entry context, four
phases can be distinguished:

•    premature phase, during which a significant investment in the
  country would not generate enough long-term revenues because of
  a lack of purchasing power or the absence of demand for the
  product or service. This phase is characteristic of developing
  countries at an early stage or of a product that does not fit the
  demand in a particular country. Although in the United States the
  credit card business is very lucrative, smartcard manufacturers
  have found it difficult to penetrate the market because of the lack of
  support from the banking industry. A significant investment in
  smartcards in the 1980s or 1990s would not have been appropriate
  until the window of opportunity was open. It is not suggested that
  no investment is required at this stage, but it should be limited to
  representative offices, listening posts and distribution agreements.
•    The window phase, during which the market takes off but the
  competitive landscape is not yet well established. At this stage, the
  choice is to take a first-mover view or a follower view. The
  advantages and disadvantages of being a first mover have been
  widely discussed1 and there is empirical evidence that to be the first
  to enter in a country can lead to a strong competitive advantage2 in
  emerging markets. Table 7.2 lists the arguments for and against
  being a first mover.
•      The competitive growth phase, when various competitors have
    taken advantage of the window of opportunity and are jockeying for
    market share in a high-growth situation. New entry at this stage is
    hazardous and requires either massive resources or a highly
    differentiated competitive strategy. One way to circumvent the
    handicap of being a latecomer is by an acquisition or joint venture.
•       The mature phase. At this stage, the competition is well
    established and acquisition or direct investment with an innovative
    product is generally the only way to enter successfully.
Table 7.2 Advantages and disadvantages of being a first mover
    Advantages                           Disadvantages
    •   Monopolize resources:            •   Taking a risk:
        — Distribution                       — Market immaturity
        — Location                           —    Product fit to market
        — People                               uncertain
        — Contacts                           — Lack of infrastructure
      — Suppliers                        •     Struggle now for the benefit
                                             of others later (do all the
    • Establish brands
                                             ground work)
    •    Establish standards
    •    Learn about customers


The pace of entry
Pace of entry combines the speed of entry and the progressive
adoption of low risk/low commitment mode of entry to higher
risk/higher commitment of resources (from export agent to wholly
owned subsidiary). This will depend on various factors:

•       The degree of past experience in similar countries
•   The cultural distance (the CAGE model discussed in Chapter 6) of
  the country
• The country risk (see Chapter 6)
•       The resources available to commit to the country
•       The dispersion of entries into different countries at the same time
•       The number of resources at stake.

It has been argued that too many hasty entries into many countries
within a similar time frame may have a negative effect on a firm’s
performance.3 An example of this hasty pace can be found in
Whirlpool’s entry into China. After having decided to develop a
presence in China in 1994, Whirlpool established in the same year four
joint ventures: one in Beijing for refrigerators (Snowflake), one in
Shanghai for washers (Whirlpool Narcissus), another in Shendu for
microwaves (MCV) and a further one in Shenzhen for air conditioners
(Whirlpool Raybo), coordinated by a regional headquarters in Hong
Kong plus a technical centre in Singapore. This concentrated effort put
a great strain on the company’s resources to be able to fight against
strong local competition. In 1997 Whirlpool’s focus moved from
refrigerators and air-conditioning ventures to the production of
compressors in Beijing, microwaves in Shunde and washers in
Shanghai. By 2021 Whirlpool had two factories in China (Heife and
Shunde) and one technology centre (Shenzen).


Entry modes: How to enter?4
From the point of view of a foreign investor, the typical choice on
entering a country is based on a combination of two major dimensions:

•    The control dimension: going it alone with wholly owned operations
    in which the foreigner investor has full control and ownership, or
    entering into partnerships.
•      The investment intensity dimension: investing in assets and
    competencies for value-adding activities, or limiting operations to
    commercial, development and administrative activities.
Figure 7.1 Entry modes

  This leads to the various types of entry mode represented in Figure
7.1. Those choices should generally be determined by the following
factors (Figure 7.2):

•    The overall attractiveness of the market (as discussed in Chapter
    6)
•   The political and operational risks involved
•   The government requirements
•   The time pressures
•   The internal capabilities of the firm to enter and develop local
  resources, assets and competencies in order to gain and sustain
  competitive advantage
•   The strategic objectives and the expected return on investment
  (ROI).




Figure 7.2 Factors influencing entry modes

  The next part of the chapter is devoted to analysing the main forms
of entry along these dimensions. As far as the joint venture mode and
acquisition mode examined in Chapter 9 are concerned, the factors
discussed will also apply there.

Entering a country through wholly owned subsidiaries

This entry mode is the one that gives the most control over operations,
but also involves the highest mobilization of resources and
competencies and bears the highest risks. Creating a subsidiary in a
country calls for the following requirements:

•      Assuming that a proper country attractiveness and risk analysis
    has been done prior to the investment, one needs to first familiarize
    oneself with the legal, institutional, commercial and relational
    environment. Although the firm has done sufficient analysis to make
    the investment decision, another level of research and analysis is
    needed to fully understand the concrete operational realities of local
    investment. This is the role of the feasibility study: to analyse the
    various aspects of an investment dealing with real estate,
    construction,    project   management,         sourcing,    recruitment,
    incorporation, registrations, financing, fiscal and legal matters.
    Feasibility studies should be supported by a full financial plan
    projecting future cash flow calculations and financial needs.
    Feasibility studies as well as project management can be
    contracted out to locally based consultants or engineering firms, but
    the overall control and responsibility fall upon the foreign investor.
•      Managing a construction project in a foreign country involves a
    series of practical and sometimes difficult impediments, such as the
    norms and standards of construction, the professionalism of local
    contractors and their commercial practices, the availability of
    supplies, customs clearance of imported materials and components,
    the behaviour and attitude of project workforces and local
    bureaucratic hassles. When an investor is investing in a greenfield
    operation for the first time in a country, it is advisable that they rely
    on a locally based project manager.
•    A further impediment of a greenfield operation is the need for
  recruitment, training and management of a local workforce and the
  capacity of expatriate personnel to quickly get culturally
  acclimatized and able to transfer technology. This determines the
  timing and the cost of the investment, which will ultimately affect the
  cash flow and overall profitability of the project.
• On the positive side, a greenfield, wholly owned investment gives
  the investor full control over operations and access to the full
  profitability of the investment. Sometimes the feeling of ‘full control’
  may be illusory if the company has sent expatriates with a
  superficial knowledge of the country and a lack of cultural
  understanding. In such cases, expatriate top managers will end up
  isolated in an ivory tower while local personnel manage operations
  in their own way, hiding behind apparent obedience and respect.
•    On the financial front, a wholly owned investment demands that
  foreign investors bear the full risk of equity and debt financing,
  sometimes facilitated by export credit insurance granted by the
  home country government or insurance community.

Entering a country through acquisitions

Chapter 8 will deal with international acquisitions so there is no need
to discuss in detail here what will be examined there. Overall, the
advantage of acquisitions as an entry mode is the immediate
availability of resources, assets and competencies that saves time for
the foreign investor. Another advantage is the access provided to a
market of resources when the competitive arena is already well
occupied and the window of opportunity is closed. On the less positive
side, acquisitions in foreign environments demand cross-cultural
integration skills that may not be the prime talent of investors.
Acquisitions of local firms by foreigners can also be seen in certain
cases as an intrusion that bruises national pride. Finally, acquisitions
are often made with high acquisition premiums that make this mode of
entry more costly than other alternatives.
Entering a country through joint ventures 5

Local joint ventures will also be discussed more fully in the next
chapter. What needs emphasizing here is that there are several
considerations to joint ventures, as briefly outlined below:

•      Partner selection: Several choices are open to a foreign investor.
    Table 7.3 gives an overview of the different types of partners to be
    found in host countries alongside the advantages and disadvantages
    of each. Selecting the right local partner is probably the most critical
    decision for a good joint venture. Multiple sources of information
    need to be used; track records of the partner need to be carefully
    scrutinized and if possible several alternatives should be
    considered. Ideally, a company should select a local partner with
    whom it has experienced previous business dealings during which it
    had the opportunity to appreciate the capabilities and the business
    practices of the local firm. Fit analysis (see Chapter 8) should be
    performed rigorously as due diligence.
•      A joint feasibility study has to be carried out jointly between the
    two partners as a real business plan, and not just considered as an
    administrative constraint. This joint work fosters a mutual
    understanding between the partners before they commit themselves
    to the relationship. This study should be executed in parallel with the
    financial and legal negotiations.
•      Particular attention has to be given to the selection of personnel
    detached to the joint venture. Cultural, interpersonal and teaching
    skills should be given as much priority as technical skills.
•      Operational personnel should be part of the negotiation process,
    at least partially, because only operational people can identify the
    day-to-day technical and logistical problems that may occur during
    the running of the business.
•     Integration teams (discussed in Chapter 8) should be organized as
    early as possible.
•   Training programmes are an important part of foreign investment,
  mainly when technology transfer is needed. They are particularly
  important when the joint venture is set up in an emerging country.
• Building and maintaining trust is an essential source of success in a
  joint venture. Below are the main actions and behaviours that are
  conducive to trust:
    —      Demonstrate commitment to the joint venture, by detaching
       the right personnel, the right technology and the appropriate
       financing.
    —      Keep personal communications running, even (or especially)
       when times are difficult and possible conflicts arise.
    —      Provide advance warning of any changes that you plan to
      introduce.
   — Make sure that you and your personnel show respect toward
      the other party. Cultural sense is a key ingredient of trust.
• When ending a joint venture make sure that a win–win (or at least
  a no-blame) solution is found. Even when the joint venture dissolves
  because of conflicts or bad results it is important to make sure that
  nobody loses face in the process.

Entering a country through ‘arm’s-length’ agreements:
licensing, franchising, agents and distributors

When a direct investment is not justified, foreign companies can still
establish a presence in a particular country by contracting an
agreement in the form of a licence, a franchise, an agency or a
distribution contract.
Table 7.3 Advantages and disadvantages of country-based joint venture partnerships

   These contractual arrangements are made when one or more of the
following characteristics are present:

•    The market is too small for the company to justify a full investment
•    The country is perceived as too risky
•   There is already a direct investment in a nearby country and an
  additional one would be redundant
• The government does not allow any other form of presence
    The company wants to test the market.

Licensing agreements and franchises

Licensing agreements6 are contractual arrangements by which a
company (the licensor) transfers to another company (the licensee)
its product and/or process technology with the right to exploit it
commercially. The brand name of the licensor may or may not be part
of the licensing agreement. The licensor receives financial
compensation in the form of royalties and an up-front lump sum
payment. Royalties can be calculated as a percentage of sales or as
a fixed amount per unit sold. In addition to the transfer of technology,
the licensor may send its engineers to help with technology transfer
and support. It may also receive some form of technological licence
fee. Finally, within a licensing agreement, a licensor can contractually
force the licensee to buy intermediate products or components. In that
case, the licensor also gets the benefits and profits associated with
those sales.
   The benefit of licensing is the low commitment in terms of personnel
and capital involved. It is an economic way to enter a market.
However, the disadvantages are manifold. First, there is a risk of
technological appropriation by the licensee, who may become a future
competitor. This has been the case in the past with Framatome of
France, which licensed the technology of high-pressure nuclear
reactors from Westinghouse and progressively became more
advanced and more competitive than the licensor. Another risk involves
quality control, particularly when the licence includes the right to use
the brand name of the licensor. The good name of the licensor may be
ruined if the licensee is not quality conscious. The main strategic
disadvantage of licensing is that the licensors are very distant from the
market and have no direct control over the company’s destiny in the
licensee country.
   Franchises7 are another form of indirect contractual arrangement
through which the franchiser grants the franchisee the right to use its
name and receive financial compensation in a similar way to the
licensing agreement (fixed plus royalties). The franchiser generally
forces the franchisee to adopt a certain number of operating policies
so that it can maintain a standard level of quality associated with its
brand name. Examples of international franchises can be found in the
hospitality industry (Hilton, Accor), beverages (Coca-Cola bottling),
fast food (McDonald’s) and distribution (retail) (Benetton, Gap).
   The advantages and disadvantages of franchises are very similar to
those of licensing.

Local agents and distributors
The appointment of a local agent or distributor is probably the most
frequent mode of entry for the thousands of SMEs that want to reach
international markets. For the most established large multinational
enterprises, this is also a means to reach countries that are either
risky or whose size does not justify a major investment. It can also be
an economic way to test markets without committing too many
resources up-front. The distinction between an agent and a distributor
is that the latter carries out the logistical tasks of stocking,
transporting and billing, while the former is simply a salesperson and
an order taker. In emerging markets one often finds three categories
of agents and distributors: domestic companies (most often medium-
sized firms or large multi-business family conglomerates), government
monopolies in planned economies or large international trading
companies such as Jardine Matheson, Diethelm Keller and Swire in
the Asia Pacific region.
   The main advantage of distribution agreements is that they require a
limited amount of resource from the global firm; the main
disadvantages are the lack of contact with the market and the conflict
of interest that can emerge when sales reach a certain level.8 The
economic reason for this conflict is the fact that distributors are
generally remunerated by a commission as a percentage of sales.
When sales grow, the total commission may reach a point where it is
bigger than the fixed costs required to set up a wholly owned
marketing subsidiary. The multinational firms then try to get rid of the
local distributor, as was seen in Europe with the Japanese car makers
who progressively replaced their distributors with their own
organizations in major countries. Knowing this, the local distributor is
disincentivized to push sales once it becomes obvious that the
substitution point is approaching. Instead of fighting a lost cause,
international distributors have often adopted a strategy of becoming
‘partners’ rather than pure distributors and raising the added value of
their services to both customers and principals in order to raise
‘switching costs’. However, when that country is contributing a
significant portion of the turnover and has thus become ‘key’, the
global firm will generally shift to another, more direct mode of entry.
Entering a country through a representative, technical or
procurement office

The representative office is another very frequent entry mode,
considered as a stepping stone or a beachhead. In countries where a
company is entering for the first time this type of entry consists of
sending an expatriate manager (sometimes using a locally recruited
person) to collect information, establish contacts, organize direct
sales, lobby for licences, negotiate distribution or joint venture
agreements and recruit local personnel. This entry mode is frugal in
resource consumption and beneficial in building competencies, but it
reaches its limit when it comes to actually running a business. It suits
corporations that are selling big projects (railways systems, airport or
defence contracts, turnkey plants) at the pre-bidding phase. In these
cases, representative offices complement and control the local agents
who are lobbying for information and access to decision makers.
   Technical offices are another form of entry. Technical offices are
most relevant when the country is considered to be a source of
technological innovation and a presence can give access to useful
contacts and information.
   Procurement or purchasing offices are most appropriate for
large retailers or big commodity buyers who set up an office in order
to be close to suppliers, to negotiate contracts and to control their
execution. Some companies specialize in buying for third parties and
are used by firms that do not want to commit resources to establishing
their own office.

Entry modes seen as ‘real options’

The concept of the ‘real option’ has been proposed in business
strategy literature to explain some investment decisions, including
foreign investment decisions.9 The theory of the real option is directly
derived from the financial theory of options. According to real option
proponents, some investments can be assimilated to a ‘call option’,
that is, a preliminary investment to observe the future development of
the business, and at the end of a trial period, the company has the
possibility of expanding or retreating. The cost of making the
preliminary investment is equivalent to the price of an option. If the
company sees that the foreign investment is creating future value then
it can exercise its option and expand – that is, increase its stake in a
joint venture, transform a licence into an acquisition or replace a
distributor with a full investment. If the business does not seem to be
developing, it stops the investment, sells its share in the joint venture
and continues under licence or as a distributor, or sells the business.

Comparing entry modes
Each mode of entry has its advantages and disadvantages. Table 7.4
summarizes the positives and negatives of each based on various
criteria.
   Table 7.4 shows that wholly owned approaches and acquisitions
have the most significant market impact and subsequent payout. The
return on investment is high to moderate and, at least, close to the
cost of capital. The reason is that in the case of a wholly owned
investment, it takes time to build a market presence and in the case of
an acquisition, the original investment requires an up-front premium.
The residual value in these two cases provides most of the return,
indicating that these two kinds of investment are valid from a long-term
perspective and should be used only when country risks are limited.
Licensing is highly profitable from a return viewpoint. This is owing to a
minimal up-front investment and a constant flow of royalties, but the
absolute value is small. This fits a situation of high risks and low
commitment. The long-term exposure in a licensing agreement is
negligible. Joint ventures are middle of the road and the example in
Mini-case 7.1 shows that they give a higher return than either the
wholly owned or acquisition modes. However, joint ventures, as
mentioned earlier, do not have a brilliant performance record, showing
that the theoretical value of this mode of entry is often hampered by
poor implementation.
   See Mini-case 7.1 for details of how this works in practice. The
cash flows are the cumulative flow of investments paid by the foreign
firm and the dividends or royalties received plus the terminal value at
the end of the period.

Choosing an entry mode
The choice of entry mode is a function of the factors described at the
beginning of the chapter and illustrated in Figure 7.2. There is no ideal
solution and the choice is up to each company, according to the
weighting given to corporate global strategy, country risks and
opportunities, capabilities, timing and government constraints. Figure
7.3 gives a mapping of possible choices as a function of some of
these factors, but in the end, the final decision is a multidimensional
one that resists a simplistic 3 × 3 representation.




Figure 7.3 Mapping of entry mode choices

Table 7.4 Comparing various entry modes
  Over time, with economic growth and increased internal capabilities,
foreign investors may shift from predominantly choosing one mode to
favouring another. In China, for instance, wholly owned foreign
enterprises overtook equity joint ventures in 1997.10

Entry strategies in the digital space
As mentioned earlier in Chapter 1, digital companies are more likely to
be ‘born global’ than traditional firms. This is mainly due to lower
transaction costs of entering foreign markets. As indicated by Watson
et al. (2017) there are three models of market entry:
1  The Relational model, implying the building of contracts with local
  entities: distributors, subcontrac-tors, partners
2 The Digital model that relies only on the deployment of platforms
3    The Hybrid model which is a combination of both.

In the case of digital and hybrid models ‘Internet communication
technologies enable businesses to identify and exploit market
opportunities faster and across wider geographic areas than was
previously possible’.11 This is true when the delivery is purely digital
(Facebook, Alphabet, Microsoft, PayPal) as those firms can deploy
their internet infrastructure with the only constraint of foreign language
and legal adaptation. When digital companies are also involved with
the distribution of tangible products or services, they may adopt a
hybrid type of market entry. Table 7.5 summarizes the differences
among the three models of entry.
Table 7.5 Three models of entry


 Traditional relational           Digital               Hybrid
 Based on contracts with Based    on     internet Combined
 local authorities and infrastructure             relational and
 partners:               developed internally     digital
 • Distributors          • Pure digital delivery  •       B2B and
 •    Local partners        •       Drop shipping    B2C
                              and/or downloading     platforms
 •    Logistics
                            • Cloud computing     •        Physical
 •    Local personnel
                                                     presence
 •               Productive
                                                  •       Customer
     investments
                                                     service
                                                     platforms
                                                        •         Local
                                                          personnel
                                                        • Alliances
                                                                   •           Local
                                                                       partners

Sources: Authors’ own construction from Watson, Weaven and Perkins (2017).




  MINI-CASE 7.1

  Schneider Electric and the power backup market in
  India

  Schneider Electric calls itself ‘The Global Specialist in Energy
  Management’. With a turnover of €250 billion and employing
  135,000 people in more than 100 countries in 2019, Schneider
  Electric provides products and services five energy markets:
  infrastructure, data centres and networks, industry, residential
  and buildings.
     The company entered India in 1993 through a series of
  partnerships and established its own subsidiary in the same year.
  India rapidly became an important market. Schneider focused on
  the premium market segments with a distribution strategy that
  was based on direct selling, and was not very familiar with the
  retail indirect selling markets. It developed a strategy of creating
  and locally manufacturing products specifically for India, the ‘in
  India for India push’. By the end of 2010, Schneider Electric
  Corporation had about 15,000 employees, 31 manufacturing
  plants and 2,000 channel partners. In 2011, the company faced a
  decision regarding Schneider Electric’s power backup products.
     Electrical backup devices are designed to ensure a continuous
  supply of power to a site. The market for backup products in
  India is made of two major segments:
1    The UPS (uninterruptible power supply) segment needs
    devices with an in-built battery and/or electronic devices to
    briefly provide emergency power to computers and other
    critical equipment before backup generators kick in. Large-
    scale UPS devices were sold directly to corporate customers.
    The market for small UPS devices was price sensitive,
    fragmented and sales were made through distributors. The
    large-scale UPS market in India, worth $530 million and
    growing at 7 per cent annually, was dominated by large global
    firms. Schneider, with 9.4 per cent of market share, was one
    of the big players in this segment. It had developed products
    as part of the ‘in India for India’ programme with its own R&D
    team, its devoted manufacturing and both direct and indirect
    distribution channels. Schneider revenue from the UPS
    segment was about $50 million.
2     The inverter segment was made up of devices serving non-
    critical applications such as lights, fans and TVs for several
    hours to a day. While backup power in large apartment or
    office complexes was met by diesel generators, this was not
    the case for individual homes or small businesses. Unlike the
    UPS devices, the inverter’s battery, which could be bought
    separately, was a critical element of the device since it had to
    provide longer hours of use. Batteries had to be changed
    frequently and cost up to three times that of the inverter device
    itself. This technology was less advanced and the market,
    although less lucrative, was bigger in terms of units sold than
    the UPS market. The know-how and components were widely
    available and the market, worth $430 million and growing 20
    per cent annually, was dominated by Indian producers. Foreign
    multinational attempts to break into this market had met with
    limited success.

   For Schneider, these Indian backup products were part of the
data centres and networks business. Considering the success of
the division in the UPS segment, Schneider decided to enter the
inverter market, playing on its technological superiority. The
Schneider products cost about 20 per cent more than competitive
products and Indian customers found the price too high despite
impressive technological features. It was difficult for the company
to lower its costs given the global standards of the company.
Inside the company three differing points of view were expressed:
to leave the product as it was, to develop a new low-cost product
or to consider acquiring or allying with a local firm.
   The third position was supported by the fact that the company
had entered discussions with Luminous Company, a local Indian
family group. Luminous had 3,000 employees, 9 manufacturing
plants, 25 sales offices and a network of 25,000 dealers.
Luminous had a presence in power backup products such as
inverters, batteries, home electrical devices, renewable energy
and services. Inverters made by Luminous featured an integrated
battery. In the inverter segment Luminous’ revenues were about
$65 million. The company was looking for diversification areas
such as diesel engines, solar energy and expansion into UPS and
the overall energy management segment.

Questions:

1  What are the pros and cons of all three alternatives open to
  Schneider?
2 Considering the third alternative, what method do you
  recommend: ally or acquire?
3 Once you have selected one alternative, how do you
  recommend this be implemented?
Source: Modified with permission from Singh (2012).




MINI-CASE 7.2

Entry and development of Transsion in Africa
Founded in 2006 by Zhu Zhaojiang in Shenzhen, Transsion
Holdings manufactures and sells mobile phones. In 2008 the
company decided to enter Africa with the opening of its first
subsidiary in Nigeria, extended later into Ethiopia, Kenya,
Cameroon, Morocco, Egypt and Tanzania.
   Zhu saw a strategic opportunity to focus on the African market
where the potential demand was high with an existing penetration
of mobile phones of 18 phones per 100 inhabitants compared with
101 per 100 inhabitants in Europe. In 2008 the leaders in Africa
were Samsung and Nokia who provided standardized products at
a relatively high price. Zhu’s idea was to take on this opportunity
by designing a specifically tailored strategy to Africa based on
customers’ market surveys.

•  Low pricing as compared to existing dominant brands.
•  Two or four SIM cards slots to take care of the expensive call
  charges between telecom operators.
•   Local languages phones: Amharic in Ethiopia, Tigrinya and
  Oromo in Eritrea, Swahili in Kenya and Tanzania, Hausa in
  Nigeria.
•  Louder and clearer speakers for music and phone calls.
•   Long-lasting battery and low-cost quick-charge technology to
  overcome the problem of insufficient, unreliable electric power
  supply in some countries.
• An anti-corrosion coating technology tailored to hot and humid
  climates.
• A camera that allowed selfies to be taken in low light.
•    A database based on millions of pictures of dark-skinned
  people, optimized the photo beautification algorithm to take
  good quality photos using big data and machine learning, and
  develop other technologies to enhance photography and face
  recognition accuracy in low light.
•     Sales network starting in rural areas with a strategy called
    ‘countryside surrounding city’ relying on phone distributors using
  the prepaid mode.
• Partnerships with other distributors.

By 2019 Transsion brands (Tecno, Itel, and Infinix) had captured a
38 per cent market unit share in Africa ahead of Samsung’s 19
per cent and Huawei’s 10 per cent.
Source: Modified with permission from Chen and Zhuang (2020). Copyright © 2020.




MINI-CASE 7.3

Lubricador SA

Lubricador SA is an Italian specialist chemical company with a
wide range of products serving various industrial applications. The
car division of the company specializes in lubricants for brake and
air-conditioning systems. In late 2020, the company sent a
mission to China to analyse the market and prepare an analysis
of various investment alternatives. China had become the second
largest car market in the world and was on the way to full
recovery after the pandemic crisis of 2020. The Chinese car
industry was extremely competitive, with local as well as
international players fighting for market share. The study team
had concentrated on one particular type of product: brake fluid
additive. It estimated that the current domestic market of 50
million litres a year would grow at a rate of 8 per cent a year over
the decade from 2020 to 2030. The competition was made up of
two domestic firms which controlled 70 per cent of the market
and one Japanese joint venture which controlled 30 per cent. The
study team concluded that there were four major alternatives for
market entry:

•    Set up a greenfield operation and operate as a 100 per cent
    subsidiary. The minimum economic capacity was 20 million
  litres for a total investment of $20 million. The financing of the
  investment would be done entirely by the mother company and
  it could expect to repatriate a dividend of 80 per cent of net
  profit when this became positive. The subsidiary could not
  expect to capture more than 10 per cent of market share in the
  first year, growing progressively by 5 per cent a year and
  stabilizing at 20 per cent after the fifth year of operations.
  Export output would be around 5 million litres in the first year,
  increasing by 0.5 litres per year up to 8 million litres.
• The second alternative was to buy the Japanese competitors.
  The acquisition price would be $70 million but Lubricador could
  expect to capture the 30 per cent market share right away. The
  yearly growth and export output, as compared with the first
  alternative, would be the same. An additional investment of $10
  million might be needed for an additional 10 million litres.
  Dividends would be 90 per cent of net profit.
•     A third option would be to form a joint venture with one
  existing Chinese firm. The immediate market share would be
  30 per cent, rising to 50 per cent in the third year owing to the
  improved technology of the Italian firm. The total investment
  cost would be $30 million. The financing of the joint venture
  would be one-third equity to be shared 50/50 with the local
  partner and two-thirds debts to be serviced over seven years.
  The maximum exports in that case would only be 6 million litres
  per year. All other hypotheticals would remain the same.
• Finally, it was possible to conclude a licensing agreement with
  a local firm which could use and transform its existing facilities
  and obtain, at best, a 20 per cent market share. In such a
  case, Lubricador SA would have to invest $600,000 over the
  next three years to transfer its technology and receive a royalty
  of 3 yuan/Ltrs after three years.

Other factors to consider were:
•   Exchange rate: US$1 = 6.58 yuan (the study considered that
  the yuan might appreciate against the US dollar by 20 per cent)
• Prices/costs:

    ○     Selling price (domestic) = 3.5 yuan/kg
    ○     Selling price (export) = 4.5 US$/kg
    ○     Production costs = declining function with cumulated volume
         = 2500−0.025 * 10log (cumulative volume)

    ○         Administrative/marketing costs = 1,200 million yuan,
         increasing to 1,600 million yuan

•   Weighted average cost of capital (WACC) = 15 per cent
•   Domestic loans interest rate: 10 per cent
•   Working capital requirement = 33 per cent of production
  costs
• Net present value (NPV) assumes capital costs = 15 per cent
•   Tax rate on profit = 30 per cent
•   Debt servicing: 7 years.

Questions:

1    What are the economic benefits for Lubricador in each
    option?
2  Beyond the return, what are the advantages and
  disadvantages of each option?
3 Which option would you select and why?

Summary and key points
1       Entry strategy concerns three aspects:
    a      Entry objectives (why)
    b       Timing of entry (when)
    c   Mode of entry (how)
2   Entry objectives:
    a   Market development objectives to enter a market are:
        • Size and growth opportunity – depends on income and
        population of a country
      • Criticality of countries – there are key countries in which
        a presence is needed for global long-term
        competitiveness owing to size and/or quality of customer
        base
    b   Resource access objectives – extracting key resources
      such as natural or human resources which contribute to
      competitive advantage
    c Learning objectives – gains in knowledge/competency in
    countries where industry is state of the art
  d    Coordination objectives – coordination hub for regional
    activities owing to favourable location and infrastructure
    advantages
3 Timing of international entry – there are four phases:
    a   Premature phase:
        •     Absence of demand
        •      Common in developing countries at an early stage or
             for a product that does not fit demand in a particular
             country
        •     Appropriate investment at this stage is the
       establishment of any of:
    — Representative offices
    — Listening posts
    — Distribution agreements
    b Window phase (‘window of opportunity’):
        •     Market is now taking off with relatively little competition
         •    Potential strategies include:
              — Follower
              — First mover:
                  ○    Advantages – pre-empt run on resources;
                  establish brands; establish standards; learning
                  about customers
              ○     Disadvantages – taking all the risks; others can
                  take a ‘free ride’ on the back of your groundwork
    c     Competitive growth phase:
         •  High market growth but competitors have received first-
           mover advantages
         • Potential strategies:
           — Hazardous entry except with massive resources or
              a highly differentiated strategy
              — Acquisition or joint venture arrangement
    d        Mature phase:
         •  Well-established market
         •  Potential strategies:
            — Acquisition
            — Direct investment with an innovative product
    e     Pace of entry
        Combines the speed of entry and the progressive adoption of low risk/low
        commitment mode of entry to higher risk/higher commitment of resources

4   Mode of entry:
    a     Factors influencing entry mode:
         •     Strategic objectives
         •     Country risks (political and operational risks)
         •     Opportunities
         •     Company’s internal capabilities
         •     Time pressure
    •     Government requirements
b       Types of entry mode:
    •     Wholly owned subsidiaries:
         — Advantages – gives most control over operations;
        low technological leakage
      —    Disadvantages – requires the highest mobilization
        of resources and competencies; highest risk; high up-
        front investment; slow entry
    • Acquisition:
         —  Advantages – immediate availability of resources,
        assets and competencies; enables access to market
        when window of opportunity is closed; high market
        penetration; high control of market; low technological
        leakage
      — Disadvantages – requires cross-cultural integration
        skills that acquiring company may not possess; some
        nationalities may view acquisition by foreigners
        unfavourably; costly, as often associated with high
        acquisition premiums; high political risk exposure
    • Joint venture:
—      Advantages – quick entry; medium to high market
  penetration
—    Disadvantages – medium to high technological leakage;
  high managerial complexity
— Partner selection – depends on the combination of legal
  requirements and internal capabilities the firm possesses
— Partner categories:
             ○   Sleeping
             ○   Complementing
             ○   Investor
             ○   ‘Teaching’
          ○ Acquisition
—     Partner types – each has their own advantages and
  disadvantages:
        ○   Supplier
        ○   Customer/distributor
        ○   Competitor
          ○  Diversifier
          ○  Investor
          ○  Government
—    Partner evaluation uses the same criteria as assessing
  an alliance partner: strategic fit, capability fit, cultural fit
  and organizational fit
—   Management:
          ○     Staffing – foreign managers should possess
            political and cultural skills; local staff should
            ideally be loyal to the joint venture, not to the
            local partner
          ○     Control – can be obtained through shareholding
              ownership or responsibility over operational
              functions
          ○     Termination, problems and renewal:
          ○     Termination – potential problems are the ‘death
              valley’ issue (development of a vicious cycle in
              which partners’ communications shut off) and joint
              venture decay (drop in mutual interest and loss of
              impetus for further collaboration)
          ○     Failures/problems – absence of strategic vision;
              ‘believing without seeing’; failure to understand
              local partner’s strategic logic; haste in
              negotiation; insufficiently prepared staff or lack of
              organizational support
            ○        Renewal – revitalize the joint venture by
               increasing range or broadening the scope of its
               activities
    •    Licence or franchise:
—     Advantages – low economic risk (minimal commitment
  of personnel and capital); low political risk exposure
—     Disadvantages – risk of technological appropriation by
  licensee who may become future competitor; damage to
  brand name if licensee is not quality conscious; licensor’s
  lack of control over licence destiny in the licensee country
  • Agent or distributor:
—    Frequently used by SMEs for reaching international
  markets
— Entry mode for reaching countries that are either risky or
  whose size does not justify a major investment
—    There are three categories of agent or distributor in
  emerging countries:
        ○  Multi-business family conglomerates
        ○  Government monopolies
            ○   Large international trading companies
—       Advantages:
             ○  Economic (low resource commitment)
             ○  Possible quick entry
             ○  Low political risk exposure
             ○  Low technological leakage
—        Disadvantages:
             ○  Lack of contact with market
             ○     Conflict of interest when the sales reach a
               certain level
    •              Office (representative   office/procurement
        office/technical office):
    —        Representative office
                ○     Advantages – frugal in resource consumption;
                   beneficial in building competency; appropriate
                   when corporations are selling big projects at the
                   pre-bidding phase; low political risk exposure; low
                   technological leakage
                ○        Disadvantages – slow entry; low market
                   penetration; low control of market
    —       Technical or procurement offices:
                ○ Useful when country is source of technological
               innovation and company presence gives access
               to useful contacts and information
             ○    Procurement offices most appropriate for large
               retailers or big commodity buyers who want to be
               close to suppliers and control contract execution
    c    Choice of entry mode – dependent on weighting a
      company assigns to various factors influencing entry modes
    d A ‘real option’ (a call option)
        •      Price of option is the cost of making the preliminary
            investment
        • Choices from real option are:
    —       Expand investment if foreign investment is creating
      future value
    —      Terminate investment if foreign investment does not
      seem to develop

Learning assignments
1    What are the relative advantages and disadvantages of
    setting up a wholly owned subsidiary instead of a joint
    venture?
2   What is a ‘window of opportunity’?
3  Under which conditions does being a first mover give
  sustainable competitive advantage?
4 What are the major problems associated with licensing?
5  What potential problems does a foreign investor experience in
  an industrial joint venture with an ex-local agent or distributor?
6 Why do joint ventures often fail?

Key words
•   Entry modes
•   First mover
•   Franchise
•   Joint venture
•   Licensing
•   Pace of entry
•   Real option
•   Representative offices
•   Wholly owned operations
•   Window of opportunity

Web resources
Academia:
https://www.academia.edu
UNCTAD Publications:
https://unctad.org/publications
UNCTAD World Investments Reports:
https://unctad.org/topic/investment/world-investment-report
WTO (World Trade Organization) International Trade Statistics:
https://data.wto.org/en
     Companion website

     Visit the companion website at bloomsbury.pub/global-
     strategic-management-5e for a multitude of weblinks and
     resources, self-test questions for revision and appendices.


Notes
1    Lieberman and Montgomery (1988).
2    Luo and Peng (1998).
3    Vermeulen and Barkema (2002).
4    On entry modes, see Anderson and Gatignon (1986); Kim and Hwang (1992).
5    Beamish and Bank (1987).
6    See Contractor (1981); Beamish (1996).
7    Gompers and Connely (1997).
8    Arnold (2000).
9    Kogut and Kulatilaka (1994); Luermann (1997); Williamson (1999).
10   Vanhonacker (1997).
11   Watson et al. (2017).


References and further reading
Adarkar, A., Adil, A., Ernst, D. and Vaish, P. (1997) ‘Emerging market alliances: must they
  be win– lose?’, McKinsey Quarterly, 4: 120–37.
Anderson, E. and Gatignon, H. (1986) ‘Modes of foreign entry: a transaction costs
  analysis and propositions’, Journal of International Business Studies, 17 (3): 1–26.
Arnold, D. (2000) ‘Seven rules of international distribution’, Harvard Business Review, 78
  (6):131–7.
Beamish, P. (1996) ‘Note on international licensing’, Richard Ivey School of Business,
  University of Western Ontario, Note 9A96G008.
Beamish, P. and Bank, J. (1987) ‘Equity joint ventures and the theory of the multinational
  enterprise’, Journal of International Business Studies, 18 (3): 1–16.
Cavusgil, S. T. and Ghauri, P. N. (1991) Doing Business in Developing Countries: Entry
  and Negotiation Strategies (London: Routledge).
Chen, G. and Zhuang, X. (2020) ‘Transsion Mobile: Deep Blue Ocean in Africa’.
  https://publishing.insead.edu/case/transsion-mobile-deep-blue-ocean-africa (accessed
  1 February 2022).
Contractor, F. (1981) International Technology Licensing: Compensation, Costs and
  Negotiation (Lexington, MA: D.C. Heath).
Decarli, M. and Neubert, M. (2021) ‘Internationalisation Patterns of European Mobile
  Network Operators’, Working Paper No. 004, UIBS United International Business
  Schools.. https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3781542 (accessed 1
  February 2022).
Gompers, P. and Connely, C. (1997) ‘A note on franchising’, Harvard Business School,
   Note 9297108.
Hopkins, R. (2017) Grow Your Global Markets A Handbook for Successful Market Entry
   (New York, NY: Springer).
Johanson, J. and Vahine, L-E. (1977) ‘The internationalization process of the firm: a
   model of knowledge development and increasing market commitment’, Journal of
   International Business Studies, 8 (1): 23–32.
Kaha, H. (2014) ‘Strategic motives of Turkish foreign direct investment firms: an empirical
   study on manufacturing sector’, İstanbul Üniversitesi İşletme Fakültesi Dergisi Istanbul
   University Journal of the School of Business Cilt, 43 (2): 368–90.
Kim, C. and Hwang, P. (1992) ‘Global strategies and multinational entry mode choice’,
   Journal of International Business Studies, 23 (1): 29–53.
Kogut, B. (1989) ‘The stability of joint ventures: reci-procity and competitive rivalry’,
   Journal of Industrial Economics, 38 (2): 183–98.
Kogut, B. and Kulatilaka, N. (1994) ‘Options thinking and platform investments: investing
   in opportunity’, California Management Review, Winter: 52–71.
Lieberman, M. and Montgomery, D. (1988) ‘First mover advantages’, Strategic
   Management Journal, 9: 41–58.
Luermann, T. (1997) ‘Investment opportunities as real options: getting started on the
   numbers’, Harvard Business Review, 76 (4): 51–67.
Luo, Y. and Peng, M. (1998) ‘First mover advantages in investing in transitional
   economies’, Thunderbird International Business Review, 40: 141–63.
Miller, R., Glen, J. D., Jasperen, F. and Karmokolias, Y. (1996) ‘International joint ventures
   in developing
countries: happy marriages?’, International Finance Corporation, Discussion Paper, 29.
Mowla, M., Hoque, N., Mamun, A. and Uddin, M. A. (2014) ‘Entry mode selection, location
   choice and the sequence of internationalization: a case study on Ranbaxy Laboratories
   Ltd.’, Asian Social Science 10 (6): 145–54.
Mudambi, R. and Zahra, S. A. (2018) ‘The survival of international new ventures’,
   International Entrepreneurship, 85–130.
Rigman, T. (1996) ‘Window of opportunity: timing and entry strategies’, Industrial
   Management and Data Systems, 96 (5).
Root, F. (1994) Entry Strategies for International Markets (San Francisco, CA: Jossey
   Bass).
Singh, J. (2012) ‘Schneider Electric in India: power backup products’, INSEAD case no.
   004/2013-5882.
Tang, J. and Liu, B. S. (2011) ‘A network based theory of foreign market entry mode and
   post-entry performance’, International Journal of Business and Social Science, 2 (23)
   Special Issue: 50–9.
Vanhonacker, W. (1997) ‘Entering China: an unconven-tional approach’, Harvard
   Business Review, 75 (2): 130–41.
Vermeulen, F. and Barkema, H. (2002) ‘Pace, rhythm, and scope: process dependence in
   building a profitable multinational corporation’, Strategic Management Journal, 23, 637–
   53. http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/smj.243 (accessed 1 February 2022).
Watson G. F., IV, Weaven, S. and Perkins, H. (2017) ‘International market entry
   strategies: relational, digital, and hybrid approaches’, Journal of International Marketing,
   December, doi: 10.1509/ jim.17.0034.
Williamson, P. J. (1999) ‘Strategy as options on the future’, Sloan Management Review,
   Spring: 117–26.
Williamson, P. J. and Qionghua, H. (1994) Managing the Global Frontier: Strategies for
   Developing Markets (London: Pitman).
Zhao, H., Ma, J. and Yang, J. (2017) ‘30 years of research on entry mode and
  performance relationship: a meta-analytical review’, Management International Review,
  57 (5): 653–82.


Journals

Global                        Strategy                    Journal:
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/20425805
Journal              of           International         Marketing:
https://journals.sagepub.com/home/jig
Journal                 of             World            Business:
https://www.journals.elsevier.com/journal-of-world-business
Sloan Management Review: https://sloanreview.mit.edu
Chapter 8

Global mergers, acquisitions
and strategic alliances




 At the end of the chapter you will be able to:

 •     Understand the strategic value of various forms of combining
     capabilities through mergers, acquisitions and strategic
     alliances
 •    Identify the critical elements of value creation in an acquisition
     plan and implement integration
 •    Understand the various phases of post-merger integration and
     explain the different modes of integration
 •      Explain the different types of strategic alliances in a global
     context
 •    Analyse the various fits among parties involved
 •    Structure a negotiation for reaching an agreement
 •    Anticipate potential issues in the management of the alliances
     and understand how to set up the proper mechanisms to solve
     them
    •   Discuss the specific aspects of joint ventures for market entry



Introduction
As part of their strategic vision to globalize, firms can use three
methods: building their own capabilities abroad by investing their own
resources, borrowing capability from a partner by setting up an
alliance or buying those capabilities by acquiring or merging with a
company: the build, borrow or buy paradigm.1
   In this chapter we will look at the strategic and managerial issues
involved in the combination of mergers, acquisitions or alliances
capabilities between firms from different countries of origin.
   In the first part of the chapter we will focus on mergers and
acquisitions and will look at the two phases of mergers and
acquisitions (M&As): the pre-acquisition phase and the post-
acquisition phase. The pre-acquisition phase deals with the decision-
making process: how companies make the M&A decision, calculate
the potential value of the acquired company and negotiate the deal.
The post-acquisition phase refers to the managerial processes
involved in the integration of the merged companies. This phase is
considered by consultants and academics to be the most important
source of success or failure.
   In the second part we will deal with the different forms of alliances
and discuss the various types of potential alliance whether global
alliances or joint venture for market entry.
   We will study aspects of forming, analysing, negotiating and
implementing global strategic alliances.
   In both parts we will present a framework for studying the various
stages of mergers, acquisitions and alliance formation made of four
main steps:

•       Understanding the strategic value of a merger, acquisition or
    alliance.
•     Analysis of partner(s) or target: strategic fit, capabilities fit, cultural
    fit and organizational fit.
•    Negotiation and design of the structure.
•     Implementation: making the arrangement work thanks to a
  properly managed integration.
  At the end of the chapter we shall present some criteria for
successful mergers, acquisitions or alliances.

Global mergers and acquisitions

The rationale for cross-border M&AS

Since 1985 there has been an average increase of 12 per cent per
year2 in the value of cross-border M&As. M&As are instruments used
by companies to increase their global reach and competitiveness.
Even in the Asia Pacific region, traditionally allergic to M&As, the
financial crisis that struck the region in 1997 opened the door to an
acquisition spree.
   Cross-border M&As have been a means of international expansion
since the 1970s. The acquisition policy of Getinge, a Swedish medical
equipment firm, illustrates this point in the following example.


EXAMPLE 8.1 Getinge’s growth via international acquisitions

Getinge, a Swedish-based company specializing in healthcare
equipment, employs 15,000 people in forty countries with revenues of
30 billion SEK (US$ 3.4 billion). Getinge was created in 1904 as a
manufacturer of agricultural machinery. In 1932 it entered the medical
equipment business (sterilizers) and in the 1970s engaged in an
internationalization strategy mainly based on the acquisitions of
companies outside Sweden. Below is the record of this acquisition
drive.
    Cross-border M&As grew in prominence during the 1990s, mostly
fuelled by the globalization of markets and competition. Three
particular events accelerated the movement: the Single European
Market (SEM), followed by the advent of the euro; the 1997 Asian
crisis; and the use of the shareholder value model of corporate
governance. The SEM and the euro created the economic conditions
for the consolidation of European companies, the Asian crisis gave an
opportunity to Western corporations to buy Asian assets and finally
the shareholder value model forced companies not only to de-diversify
but also to concentrate on core activities. The example of Aventis
illustrates this last point. Aventis was the result of the merger of the
life-sciences activities of Rhône Poulenc Rorer (France and United
States) and Hoechst (Germany). Before merging, Hoechst and Rhône
Poulenc spun off their chemical businesses. Ultimately, Aventis
became part of the French pharma giant Sanofi.
    The collapse of the internet bubble in the early 2000s, the subprime
crisis in 2008 and the Covid-19 pandemic which started in early 2020
slowed down the growth trend (see Figure 8.1).




Figure 8.1 Number and value of global mergers and acquisitions from 1985 to 2020
Source: Institute for Mergers, Acquisitions and Alliances (IMAA) research, Thomson Financial.

  Insert 8.1 gives some examples of significant global mergers and
acquisition since 2000.


The effect of Covid-19 on global M&As

Global M&As declined in volume and value during the first two
quarters of 2020 but experienced a rebound in the last two quarters,
mainly driven by digitalization. According to a report from
PricewaterhouseCoopers, the technology and telecom sectors
experienced the highest growth; ‘the acceleration of deals in digital
and technology, and increasing attention to environmental, social and
governance (ESG) matters’.3


   Insert 8.1 Examples of some global
   acquisitions and mergers since 2010

   Mega mergers in the beer industry

   From 2000 to 2016, the global beer industry experienced a series
   of mega mergers that crossed three continents. In 2002 SAB
   (South African Brewery) acquired Miller, the second largest US
   brewer. Two years later in 2004, the Belgian group Interbrew
   merged with AmBEV from Brazil to form InBev and become the
   largest global beer producer; InBev in 2008 then merged with the
   US firm Anheuser Busch to form AB InBev, registered in Belgium.
   In 2014 AB InBev acquired SAB Miller, consolidating its leading
   global position.

   Bayer Monsanto

   On September 2016, German pharmaceutical and chemicals
   giant Bayer bought US seed and agricultural chemical company
Monsanto. The combined company would control over a quarter
of the global supply of seeds and pesticides.

ChemChina Syngenta

In May 2017 the Chinese giant ChemChina acquired the Swiss
agrochemical company Syngenta for $43 billion, one of the
largest Chinese foreign acquisitions.

Holcim-Lafarge

In July 2015, Lafarge, a global French cement company, and its
Swiss competitor Holcim agreed to merge through an exchange
of shares with a view to achieving leadership in the global cement
industry.

EssilorLuxottica

In January 2017 the French specialist of corrective glasses
merge with the Italian Luxottica specialist of eye glasses to
create an integrated global leader in the vision industry.

Qualcomm and NXP Semiconductors

In October 2016, US Qualcomm acquired the Dutch manufacturer
NXP Semiconductors. This purchase offers Qualcomm better
access to technology and a wider world market in the automobile
semiconductor and security sectors.

Teva-Allergan

In July 2015, Israeli firm Teva bought US Allergan’s generics unit.
It is expected that this acquisition will increase Teva’s
competitiveness in generic pharmaceuticals.

Nokia-Alcatel-Lucent
Nokia from Finland announced in April 2015 that it would acquire
the French-US telecom equipment manufacturer Alcatel-Lucent.

Haier-GE Appliances

On June 2016, Qingdao Haier Co., part of the Chinese electro-
mechanical group Haier, announced the acquisition of US General
Electric’s appliance division. With this purchase, Haier, which had
held only 1.1 per cent of the US appliance market, increased its
market share in the USA to 15 per cent, and became the world’s
leading appliance manufacturer.

Alfa-Campoformio

In November 2013, Mexico’s largest processed-meats producer,
Sigma Alimentos (part of the Alfa SAB group) acquired the
Spanish sausage maker Campofrio Food Group as part of its
strategy to expand its presence in Europe.

Bharti Airtel-Zain

In July 2010 Airtel, a subsidiary of the Indian conglomerate Barthi
Enterprises, acquired the African business of the Kuwaiti
company Zain Telecom, with a view to accessing the African and
Middle Eastern markets. Following this $10.7 billion deal, the
chairman of Barthi said that this acquisition would make Barthi
Airtel a truly global telecom company with operations across
eighteen countries.

Blackstone-Thomson Reuters

On October 2018 the US private equity firm Blackstone acquired
a 55 per cent stake in the Financial & Risks division of the British
firm Thomson Reuters for about $20 billion.

Advent, Cinven, Rag-Thyssen Group
  On February 2020 the elevator division of the German Thyssen
  Group was sold for $19 billion to a consortium of companies:
  Advent (USA), Cinven (UK) and Rag Foundation (Germany).



Cross-border acquisitions performance
It is difficult when evaluating the performance of M&As to differentiate
which results are due to its international aspects and which are due to
good or bad management practices. Several studies have tried to
assess the value created by M&As some have analysed M&A deals
and their results without differentiating between domestic acquisitions
and international ones. Overall, these studies showed that 45–75 per
cent of acquisitions fail to deliver the value that was expected by their
initiators.4 John Kitching,5 looking at cross-border acquisitions in
Europe in the 1970s, found that overall 25 per cent were straight
failures and 25 per cent were not worth doing, giving a success score
of 50 per cent. A more recent study concluded that ‘M&A is a mug’s
game: typically 70–80% of acquisitions are abysmal failures’.6 The
conclusion that can be derived is that international M&As are no worse
than domestic ones. One of the reasons for this is that most cross-
border acquisitions are horizontal (i.e. in core business) and all the
studies found that horizontal acquisitions tended to be more successful
than others. A 1990 McKinsey study 7 found that cross-border
acquisitions were essentially done in core businesses, while this was
less the case in domestic ones. Since no research has tried to
compare performances of horizontal international and horizontal
domestic M&As, it is difficult to discover the specific success/failure
factors of international acquisitions. The intuitive conclusion that can be
drawn is that, on top of all other management factors, cultural
differences can be a specific challenge in cross-border deals, as the
case of Sony’s acquisition of Columbia Pictures demonstrates.
   Academics and consultants who have analysed M&As generally
come to the same conclusions.8 Success or failure comes from two
key issues: the quality of the pre-acquisition process – how companies
make the M&A decision; and the quality of the post-acquisition
process – how the integration is managed. This process is considered
the most important cause of success or failure.

The process of mergers and acquisitions
The sequence of planning and achieving a merger or an acquisition
involves two processes (Figure 8.2):




Figure 8.2 The process of mergers and acquisitions
•    The pre-acquisition process involving: a) defining the strategic
  objectives and the strategic value of a deal; b) analysis of the
  potential acquisition target or merger partner; c) valuation and
  negotiation.
•    The post-acquisition process involving the implementation of the
  integration of the two companies in the transition and the
  consolidation phases.

Pre-acquisition

1 Strategic objectives and potential for value creation

Theoretically, M&As contribute to enhancing the economic value of the
companies involved. The economics of M&As are simple: a merger or
an acquisition is justified if, and only if, the value of the new merged or
combined entity is bigger than the sum of the value of the independent
entities prior to the merger.
  The three main value-creation objectives behind cross-border M&As
are:

•   Market reach:
    —    Gaining market power globally by extension of global presence
        (global M&A): Holcim-Lafarge in the cement industry.
    —    Developing a presence in local markets (acquisition for market
        entry): Airtel’s acquisition of Zain Telecom Company in Africa and
        Middle East.
    —  Diversifying into a new domain (diversification acquisition):
     Sony’s acquisition of Columbia Pictures in the USA.
•   Consolidation: search for economies of scale:
    —    Merger of two companies in the same business (horizontal
        M&A): British American Tobacco or AB InBev and SAB Miller
        Anheuser Bush inBev in the beer industry.
     —  Merger of two companies which are buyers or suppliers of
       each other’s products (vertical integration M&A): Bayer and
       Monsanto in the chemical and seeds industries.
•     Competencies acquisitions:
     —  Merger in related or new technologies
     —  Options or the acquisition of a firm in a new technology or
      market to monitor its evolution. These categories include the
      acquisition by the Swiss pharmaceutical group Ciba-Geigy in the
      early 1980s of the Californian company Alza in order to get
      access to advanced drug delivery systems technologies; and
      more recently the acquisition of US Allergan Generics by Teva
      from Israel.
International M&As usually belong to the first or second type, but the
rush toward the internet-generated ‘new economy’ has triggered the
development of diversification and options M&As.
   Whatever the type of M&A, value is created through two modalities:

•     Short-term one-off value
•     Long-term strategic value.

Short-term value comes from the one-off post-merger realization of
cash benefits coming from a tax shield, asset disposals and immediate
cost savings or debts leverage.
   Long-term value comes from the competitive advantage gained from
the merger: either it provides enhanced differentiation capabilities, a
larger market, new growth opportunities, enhanced competencies or
cost advantages through economies of scale or scope. These
advantages are often referred as the ‘synergistic’ effects of a merger
(see Table 8.1).
Table 8.1 Value creation in M&As


    Types of value creation                Benefits
                              Short-term value creation
•    Tax shield                    •    Diminution of tax bill (cost
                                       benefits)
•    Asset disposals               •    Lower capital invested
                                       (higher return, lower cost)
•    Financial engineering:        •  Lower cost of capital
    — Debt leverage                  (assuming cost of debts lower
    — Price/earnings (P/E) ratio     than cost of equity)
       leverage                    • Total market value increased
                                     after the merger (assuming a
                                     P/E differential between buyer
                                     and seller and a positive
                                     market reaction)
                       Long-term value creation
•    Pooling and sharing           Economies of scale and scope
    resources and assets           (cost benefits)
    — Joint purchasing
    — Manufacturing
       rationalization
    — Joint distribution and
       logistics
    — Common IT and central
       services
    — Common treasury
•  Enlarged market                 •  Growth potential enhanced
  — Geography                      •  Richer value proposition
  — Products                         (higher reach and possibly
• Transfer of competencies           higher differentiation)
  — Technology                     • Higher differentiation
  — Best practices                 • Processes more effective
                                   • Innovation (higher
                                     differentiation and lower
                                     costs)
2 Fit analysis

In international mergers and acquisitions one will find generally three
types of potential target: a) consolidation targets, companies in the
same industry (mainstream); b) vertical integration targets, either
upstream (on the supplier side) or downstream (on the customer
side); and c) diversification targets, firms in a different industry. Most
of the time, targets will be found among companies already known to
the firm, either as competitor, supplier, customer or partner in an
existing alliance.
   Fit analysis consists of determining the extent to which the addition
of the two entities involved in the merger or acquisition will add more
value than the separate value of each separate entity. A fit analysis
consists of four assessments (Figure 8.3):

•   Strategic fit
•   Capabilities fit
•   Cultural fit
•   Organizational fit.
Figure 8.3 Fit analysis in mergers and acquisitions


Strategic fit
The purpose of strategic fit analysis is to assess to what extent the
strategic positioning of the two entities involved in the deal reinforce
each other. It consists of answering two very simple questions:

•  To what extent does the addition of the two entities consolidate the
  strategic positioning of the merged entities? A good example of a
  critical deal can be found in the recent acquisitions of Fiat-Chrysler
  by the French Peugeot group. It allows Peugeot to reinforce its
  presence in the US and China and gives the company a global
  profile instead of a European one.
• Is there a risk of dilution of image if the competitive positioning of
  the two firms are too distant? As an example the difficulties
  encountered in the acquisition by Daimler Benz of the US-based
  Chrysler can be attributed to the positioning distance between
  Chrysler’s middle-range class type of vehicle and Daimler’s top of
  the line.

Capabilities fit
The objective of a capabilities fit analysis is to assess the extent to
which the entities’ assets and competences complement or
supplement the competitive capabilities of the merged businesses.
  The framework for this analysis is straightforward. It consists, first,
in determining the required resources, assets and competencies
needed in the value chain of the business. Then to assess the specific
contribution the merger or the acquisition can make to each element of
the value chain either by supplementing or complementing capabilities.
In other terms the capabilities fit determine the amount of synergies
the deal is likely to generate.
  This logical analysis is described in Figure 8.4.
Figure 8.4 Framework for capabilities analysis in mergers and acquisitions


Cultural fit
Three types of cultural difference can be distinguished in global
mergers and acquisitions – corporate, industrial and national – each of
them likely to create a gap that may affect the future functioning of the
merged entity. The role of cultural fit analysis is to understand the
nature of these differences, to anticipate their possible impact on the
functioning of the post-merger situations and to take action in order to
prevent negative consequences.
   In organizations such as companies, culture is the set of beliefs –
values, assumptions and causal models – that influences the way
individuals in that organization think and behave. As mentioned earlier,
three types of difference in organizational cultures can be identified:

•   Differences in corporate cultures
•   Differences in industry cultures
•   Differences in national cultures.

Corporate culture differences come from the history of the company
(start-up versus well-established firm), its ownership structure (family-
owned versus public company versus government-owned), its
managerial style (entrepreneurial versus bureaucratic), as well as the
personality of its leaders. Good or bad past experiences with
strategies and alliances also have a strong influence on corporate
cultures.
   Industry cultures are the norms encountered in the type of business
in which firms are engaged: fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG)
companies share a marketing mindset that would not fit particularly
with a specialist chemical company, for instance.
   National or ethnic cultures are the product of the history, educational
systems, religions and social codes that each nation has woven over
the centuries. In Chapter 3, we analysed national cultures in some
detail, but as far as alliances are concerned, we will take for granted
the fact that firms are influenced by the national culture of their country
of origin and the citizenship of their key executives.
   All three differences can be present in global mergers and
acquisitions. These differences may impact the post-merger
management in five main ways:

•      On the difference in the existing strategic trajectory of the
  companies: growth versus profit optimization, short-term versus
  long-term objectives are the major conflicts that cultural differences
  may exacerbate.
•      On competing and doing business: price competition versus
  differentiation.
•    On the way communication is organized: formal versus informal,
  hierarchical versus horizontal, degree of openness, emphasis on
  interpersonal communications.
•      On financing and reinvesting: distribution of dividend versus
  reinvestment of profits, and debt policy.
•     On human resources management (HRM): criteria for recruiting,
    degree of autonomy and criteria for performance evaluation.

All of these will considerably affect the post-acquisition management
process.
Organizational fit
Organizational fit is strongly correlated with cultural fit. The objective is
to assess whether the merged organizational structure systems and
procedures differ significantly to the extent that the post-merger
organization is affected.
  The main dimensions included in organizational fit analysis are:

•   The degree of decentralization of decision making
•   The degree of documentation of policies and rules
•   The accounting and reporting methods and systems
•   The degree of formalization of decision making
•   The kind of incentives used to motivate personnel.

Altogether the analysis of the four fits will reveal the amount of
reconciliation and reconfiguration of the strategic, organizational,
capabilities and cultural differences to be taken into account when the
integration phase will take place.

Due diligence

One particular aspect that deserves attention in the case of
international M&As is related to the conduct of due diligence leading to
valuation, that is, the evaluation of the target’s real capabilities and
financial standing. It involves four types of due diligence: financial,
operational, legal and human resources.
   Due diligence and subsequently valuation are among the main
handicaps to global acquisitions, particularly in emerging markets.
There are three main reasons for this. First, marketing and strategic
information is often less accurate and reliable, or at least less
accessible, than in the home country of the buyer. Second, political or
nationalistic attitudes may hamper fair assessment. Third, local
accounting standards are not necessarily in line with international
standards. In Korea, for instance, chaebols (‘conglomerates’) do not
usually consolidate their accounts, and do not eliminate inter-company
transactions within the same group, which can lead to inflated
revenues. In Southeast Asia accounting ledgers are kept for tax
purposes and the figures have very little relevance for asset valuation.
Other major inaccuracies to be wary of include:

•   Inventories may be overvalued
•      Employees’ retirement benefits may not appear or may be
  underfunded, meaning provisions have to be added for future
  liabilities
• In certain cases, accruals are ignored and have to be restated
• Real estate has to be (re)valued at market prices, and necessary
  tax adjustments made
• Hidden liabilities such as legal actions may be uncovered.

These adjustments are the most frequent. In the event of the
acquisition of a company that is part of a conglomerate, adjustments
might have to be made for any cross-subsidiary transfers which may
have distorted the announced profitability, and checks made as to
whether any licences, distributors or contractual arrangements will still
apply after an acquisition. If such contractual assets had originally
been granted to the mother company, adequate transfers have to be
included in the acquisition agreement. More time and effort is required
to validate data than normal: detailed interviews with customers,
suppliers and bankers all have to be part of due diligence.

3 Valuation

Economic valuation is necessary in order for a potential buyer to
decide at what price it is willing to conclude the deal – or, in the case
of a merger, the relative proportions of shares to be exchanged.
   Three main methods are used for such valuations.9

Asset-based valuation
This method determines the actual value of assets minus liabilities,
using a replacement price for physical assets and adjusting for
inventories or debtors’ book value. Intangible assets and goodwill are
estimated using a comparable value for similar businesses or using
formulas such as dollars per customer. If the company’s assets are
predominantly physical, this approach may give a fair estimation of its
value. When, on the other hand, the company’s profitability relies on
intangible resources and capabilities such as employees’ commitment,
knowledge and competencies, this method fails to give a good
economic price.

Market-based valuation

This approach relies on direct market valuation if the company is listed
on a stock exchange or otherwise on market equivalent valuation.
When using stock exchange market value, the transaction will require
that the bidder puts a premium on the deal. Premiums are based on
an anticipation of value added from the merger, either short or long
term through synergies. Research has found that premiums 30–100
per cent over market value are not unusual in cross-border
acquisitions. In order to calculate how much premium the company is
ready to accept, one is forced to turn to a cash-flow method of
valuation since the future profit coming from the merger will accrue
over the years and no other method is available to calculate a
premium. Stock market prices may not always reflect economic reality
in countries where stock exchanges are not efficient owing to lack of
liquidity, partial listing, lack of proper regulations or insider trading.
   When the target company is not listed on the stock market, you can
use market equivalent measurements such as P/E ratio, price/cash
flow ratio or price/revenues ratio calculated from similar deals or
comparable companies listed on the stock exchange. Such a
measurement is crude, and should be used only as a reference since
no deal and no company, even in the same industry, is exactly the
same. In addition, particular deals may have been done on the basis
of unsound calculations and there is no reason to replicate them.
Cash-flow-based valuation

Economic theory would say that this is the only valid method, apart
from the actual market price put on the stock market when the market
is efficient.10
   With this method, the value of a firm’s equity is equal to the net
present value of future free cash flows (FCF) discounted by the
weighted average cost of capital (WACC), minus debts. In practice,
this method implies:

•     A calculation of future cash flows: revenues – cash costs –
  increase in required working capital – future investments – taxes
• A determination of the WACC, taking into account the risks of the
  deal; the WACC is the weighted average of the cost of equity and
  cost of debts.

In order to calculate future cash flows, it is necessary to forecast
revenues based on demand, price and market share assumptions as
well as costs over a period that reflect a sound strategic horizon. As
mentioned earlier, this can represent a big challenge in cross-border
acquisitions in emerging countries or emerging industries where
forecasting is more a matter of guesswork than hard computation.
Another issue that can arise is the estimation of the WACC, which
could be risk adjusted to take into consideration different risk profiles
in different countries.11 Another method is to adjust the cash flows for
potential risks (see Chapter 13 for more details).
   Two kinds of future cash flow need to be valued in M&As:

•   The future free cash flow (FCF) of the merging or of the acquired
  company calculated as if the company continued its activities
  without the merger. This is the stand-alone value. Normally, if the
  company is listed on the stock market its market capitalization
  should reflect its stand-alone value, otherwise forecasting and
  discounting are needed.
• The future value of the added value brought in the short term and
  the long term by the merger of the two companies (see Table 8.1
   above). This is the synergies value.

These two streams of cash flow give a present value that reflects the
bargaining range of the price negotiation. Below the stand-alone value
no seller would sell (unless as a fire sale or because of extreme non-
economic pressure) since they could achieve this value without being
acquired. Above the stand-alone plus synergies value, the buyer
company should not buy since, if the calculation is correct, it would
transfer the value to the seller and the buyer would not get anything
for itself (Figure 8.5).




Figure 8.5 Cash-flow-based valuation for M&As


4 Negotiation and design

Most of the legal terms of agreements negotiated in domestic M&As
apply when the deal involves two companies from different countries.
The main points of difference relate to the choice of applicable legal
system, generally that of the seller’s country, and of the arbitration
chamber for dealing with conflicts. All other items such as the mode
and currency of payment (cash or shares), no-competition clause or
retention of personnel are similar to those for a domestic M&A. As far
as the design is concerned, the choice is either to maintain the
acquired company’s existing name and organization or to integrate it
within the organization of the acquirer. Another aspect of design is the
degree of autonomy that the acquired company will enjoy within the
new owner.
5 Implementation: the integration phase

   The integration phase starts once deals have been negotiated and
the acquisition or merger decided. All researchers consider this phase
of M&As as the most important, and the major source of failure when
not handled properly. Table 8.2 summarizes the main sources of
failure and their effects.
Table 8.2 Failures in the integration process


 Source of failure in integration               Effects
 process
 Lack of strategic direction                    Actions and decisions not
                                                understood Resistance to
                                                change Uncoordinated decisions

 Lack of integration plan                       Improvisation Time lost Anxiety
                                                not reduced Slow response to
                                                events

 Leadership vacuum                              Anxiety not reduced Bureaucratic
                                                wrangles Political in-fighting
 Determinism (stubborn                          Trying to impose ‘pre-fabricated’
 implementation of the integration              solutions Lack of flexibility to
 plan)                                          solve unexpected problems
                                                Arrogant behaviour from
                                                acquirers’ employees
                                                Discouragement of front-line
                                                staff
 Lack of communication                          Anxiety not reduced Fears and
                                                rumours

  Cultural mishandling                          Stereotyping clashes, ‘them and
                                                us’ syndrome Politicking
                                              Disengagement

    Lack of operational focus                  Too much talk, not enough
                                               action
                                               Lack of concrete results
                                               No ‘quick wins’ to boost morale
                                               and speed process

    Loss of key management talent              Less productive workforce
                                               Negative signal to internal and
                                               external stakeholders

    Wrong synergies                           Loss of efficiency Dysfunctional
                                              operations
    Waste of financial resources,             No motivation, passivity
    lack of buy-in                            Politicking

Sources: Authors’ own from text in Haspeslagh and Jemison (1991); Mitchell and Holmes
(1996); Viscio et al. (1999); Habeck et al. (2000).

Ultimately, the factors shown in Table 8.2 lead to value destruction
instead of value creation. This is the reason why a proper integration
process needs to be put in place, as we shall explore in the next
section.

Integration framework
The integration process is structured in three phases:

•     An integration framework leading to an integration plan
•     Transition management
•     Strategic consolidation.
An integration framework is needed as a road map for implementing a
merger. Since the post-merger phase is a period of intense anxiety
and uncertainty for the employees, suppliers and distributors of the
companies involved, it is important that a framework guides the
management of the process. Various frameworks have been offered
by academics and consultants and they belong to two broad
categories:

•    Linear frameworks are step-by-step or checklist approaches to
  integration that apply to all M&As. Figure 8.6 illustrates one such
  framework.
•     Contingent frameworks that differentiate integration processes
  according to environmental and strategic factors. This type of
  framework does not assume a unique approach to integration. We
  present here the contingent framework developed by Philippe
  Haspeslagh and William Jemison (1991).




Figure 8.6 A model of a step-by-step integration framework
Source: Authors’ adapted from Viscio et al. (1999).

In their contingent framework, Haspeslagh and Jemison identified
three modes of integration, depending on:
•  The degree of required operational interdependencies between the
  two companies that are needed to achieve synergies. For instance,
  the rationalization of manufacturing or the transfer of competencies
  between companies.
• The degree of required organizational autonomy that the acquired
  company would need because of the difference in market and
  environment conditions with the acquirer; for instance, an acquisition
  in a different business or country.

The three integration modes that Haspeslagh and Jemison identified
(see Figure 8.7)12 are:

•   The preservation mode of integration
•   The absorption mode of integration
•   The symbiotic mode of integration.




Figure 8.7 Contingent integration modes
Source: Adapted from Haspeslagh and Jemison (1991).

  The preservation mode fits with situations in which very few
operational synergies can be gained and the business context calls for
a large degree of autonomy in decision making, as in the case of
diversification or option acquisitions. Since no benefits from
interdependencies are to be expected and no major value can be
brought in by forcing the integration of processes, assets and decision
making, the key objective is first to ‘preserve’ the identity and
autonomy of the acquired company, keeping in place, as far as
possible, the existing management and learning progressively the
‘rules of the game’ of the business. The value here essentially comes
from an enlargement of markets and products as well from the
transfer of resources or new competencies. In this mode, you should
not try to expedite the transfer of new competencies until you have
understood their logic and their impact on the organization and culture
of the recipient company. Transfer of resources comes essentially
from the injection of capital or stimulation of business development by
giving access to logistical, IT or distribution facilities to the acquired
company. Transfer of people has to be done more for learning than for
controlling purposes in such cases. The danger of this mode of
integration is being confronted by a ‘weak’ management team in the
acquired company that behaves opportunistically in siphoning off the
resources of the acquirer. This was the case in the mid-1980s when
the UK’s Midland Bank acquired a Californian financial company.13
   The absorption mode of acquisitions takes place when value is
expected from the realization of operational synergies in companies
operating in similar business contexts. The objective here is to achieve
the necessary consolidation and rationalization as rapidly as possible.
Since the businesses are very similar, the top management of the
acquirer and of the merging firm is competent to rapidly find sources
of savings and to understand which best practices to adopt. As
mentioned earlier, this rationalization may raise some practical
difficulties in the case of ‘equal mergers’ when duplicated functions
have to be eliminated. The ultimate objective, as the case of
SmithKline Beecham illustrates, is to back up the ‘Now we are one’
credo by rapidly creating a common culture.14
   Finally the symbiotic mode of acquisitions seeks to balance
interdependencies and autonomy. This is often the case in cross-
border horizontal acquisitions where a lot of value could be gained
from the achievement of synergies but the differences in contexts
require a high degree of autonomy. In this mode, the starting point is
to use a preservation mode and to find jointly the real sources of
synergies and their practicalities. This approach was used when Air
France acquired the majority shareholding of the Dutch airline KLM but
kept the entities separated from the marketing and legal point of view,
organizing synergies only for the procurement of certain items (fuel),
rationalization of routes and frequent flyer programmes.

Integrating the companies: the transition phase
Whatever the mode of integration, the critical phase in any merger or
acquisition is the transition phase. Immediately after a merger or
acquisition, the various stakeholders of the acquired or merged firms
are in a state of shock, or at least anxiety, and operations may suffer
from uncertainties that grew during the pre-acquisition phase. In Asia
Pacific, for instance, during the late 1990s, when Western firms made
a lot of acquisitions of financially strapped companies, the situation
required a fast turnaround. The transition period is the time for the
acquirer or the merging partners to establish their credibility and
demonstrate their ability to manage the new concern.
   Eight main issues need to be solved at this stage:

•     The appointment of an executive team that is capable of leading
    the integration process and managing the interface between the two
    companies.
•      The expression of a clear sense of purpose, demonstrating to
    stakeholders that the acquisition or the merger was well planned.
•    The focus on concrete operational results that motivate employees
    and distract them from destruc-tive rumours.
•     The development of a mutual understanding, bridging or palliating
    the cultural gap.
•    The demonstration of respect for the acquired company personnel,
    avoiding arrogant behaviour and preventing the ‘brain drain’ of
  valuable employees.
•    The installation of measurement tools to measure and control
  progress.
• The creation of a winning spiral that reinforces a sense of success
  and achievement.
•   The demonstration of credibility that reassures stakeholders and
  reduces anxiety.

Appointment of an executive team and interface management

In the case of a merger, the critical issue is to install a management
team that is capable of understanding the cultures of both parties and
transforming them into a new culture. Most of the time this change will
be demonstrated by a new brand that may or may not combine the
two names of the founding companies: Aventis in the case of Rhône-
Poulenc and Hoechst, or SmithKline Beecham. Personnel problems
(who is in charge?) need to be sorted out before the beginning of the
transition phase, at least for the key roles, to avoid confusion. The
projected merger between SKB and Glaxo Wellcome could not be
carried through because of disagreements over choosing the CEO of
the new entity. This problem did not arise when SmithKline and
Beecham merged.
   In acquisitions, the critical issue is to trade off the need to control
against the need to preserve the key contacts and knowledge of the
previous management team. There is also the need to make sure that
the appointed management team will be an efficient interface between
the acquired company and the foreign acquirer. The best way to
achieve an efficient interface is to appoint, as managing director, an
executive or a team of executives having the capabilities to understand
the cultures of both the seller and the buyer organization, and to serve
as a bridge between the newly acquired entity and the new owners.

Clear sense of purpose
Anxiety and resistance reduction can best be achieved if the new
management communicates credible goals, demonstrating to
stakeholders that the merger or the acquisition was well planned, thus
reassuring them of a determination to lead the company to success.
Systematic and structured communication campaigns need to be
organized. Through meetings with managers and employees,
publications or social events, the new management can disseminate
the main messages: what are the objectives? What direction is the
company going to take?

Operational focus

Focusing the attention on concrete operational details and
performance targets has two major advantages. Firstly, it is likely to
ease the uncertainty created by the takeover by demonstrating that
the acquired or newly created company is still in business. As in the
case of alliances, discussed earlier, one of the most powerful methods
is to create integration teams. Task forces are appointed, combining
personnel from the acquirer and acquired companies for each of the
key operational activities (accounting, purchasing, quality and so on).
The working party is asked to discuss and propose concrete solutions
to operational aspects: what software to use for inventory control,
what methods to adopt in order to recover ongoing receivables, how
to deal with distributors, what the possibilities are of cost reduction in
logistics and so on. The advantage of such an approach is that it gives
people a tangible sense of participation in the integration process. It
also helps to develop mutual understanding among the employees of
both organizations.
   Secondly, such teams can also rapidly detect and correct any
intrinsic weaknesses in the acquired organization. Rapid turnaround is
vital, and this is a means of establishing confidence in, and
demonstrating the visible benefits of, the acquisition. Effectiveness is
more important than optimized efficiency: a quick minor gain is more
important at this stage than a slow major one. This is the reason why
the use of integration teams to put in place practical solutions to
practical problems is so useful. The involvement of technical and
administrative or commercial middle management is critical here,
because their technical expertise, if properly combined, can bring
quick results.

Mutual understanding and respect

Cross-cultural issues are likely to arise, especially in cross-border
mergers. The ability of the two entities to understand each other is
critical for the success of any integration. The objective at the
transition phase is not so much to merge the two cultures as to create
a climate of mutual understanding. The kind of culture that will surface
from the merger is contingent upon the mode of acquisition. A
preservation mode will not attempt to blend the two cultures but on the
contrary will keep them separate, while absorption would seek to
create a common culture.15 Mutual understanding is enhanced when
the acquiring company’s staff and executives show respect for the
employees of the acquired company and are sensitive to cultural
differences and avoid behaving like the ‘conquerors’ of a besieged city.
The risks are high if the acquirers come and impose their viewpoints,
their methodologies and work processes, as if the merged company’s
practices were not worth considering. Acquirers should instill a climate
of mutual understanding by studying carefully the existing practices of
the acquired company, and seeking opinions from its employees
before introducing change.

Measurement and control

Talking with facts and figures helps communication, allows a measure
of improvement and reduces the scope for ‘cultural excuses’. These
cultural excuses are used to cover up difficulties or disagreements,
and are based on impressionistic or stereotypical judgements. The
collation of marketing, operational and financial hard facts and figures
is a necessary condition for an efficient and productive dialogue.
   In the case of the merger between SmithKline and Beecham, a
specific methodology was introduced in the integration team to guide
the process and to measure its progress.
Winning spiral

The search for tangible and immediate performance improvement
should also be on the agenda of the transition-period management.
‘Quick wins’ usually derive from the joint efforts of the integration
teams, as illustrated in the case of Renault–Nissan (see Chapter 8).
Rapid performance improvements in quality, costs and market
success give people a sense of achievement and enhance confidence
in the whole acquisition process.

Credibility

Confidence is not likely to be established if the various stakeholders
do not perceive that what the new owners say, and do, is credible.
Credibility relies essentially on the quality of the people who are put in
place to run the company, and the perception of their real power within
the mother organization. It is essential that managers appointed to the
acquired company work closely with central headquarters to make
sure that the acquisition is well supported from the top, and that
sufficient resources are devoted to making it work.

Integrating the companies: the consolidation
phase
The consolidation phase sees the final integration of the two
companies and the definition of respective strategic roles within the
merged company. In the case of a merger, it consists of creating and
finalizing a new organizational structure in which the merging firms
dissolve themselves into the new design. SmithKline and Beecham,
with the programme of a ‘Simply Better’ way and a strategic vision of
the new company under the umbrella of ‘global healthcare’, achieved
this after one year.
   In the case of a cross-border acquisition, the consolidation phase
consists of providing the acquired company with a strategic identity
and making sure that it has a clearly defined role in the overall regional
or global strategy of the acquirer. Employees, governments and the
local community may see the acquisition generally as a foreign
intrusion, perhaps even reminiscent of an old colonial past. During the
transition phase described earlier, the purpose was to instill
confidence in the various stakeholders about the will and capabilities
of the acquirer to contribute to the development of the firm. At the
consolidation phase, there is a need to confirm that the acquisition is
not only a trading of assets or a good bargain, but also a real
strategic move in which the acquired firm has a role to play. This gives
employees a sense of direction and self-esteem. The acquired firm’s
employees must feel that they are not pawns, but strategic partners,
who are part of a strategic vision and essential in achieving it. One of
the best methods is to give the firm some responsibilities in leading
strategic initiatives in terms of business or product developments. In
the case of Lenovo’s acquisition of the computer arm of IBM, IBM was
given strategic leadership for the global development of PCs.
   The second challenge is to make the acquired company part of the
family by plugging it into the existing network of knowledge and
competencies. This is achieved through secondment of personnel to
other subsidiaries, participation in conferences and seminars, and by
teamwork in various operational areas where transfer of
competencies can add real value. Control has to be exercised without
stifling entrepreneurial benefits. The ideal situation is to rely on most of
the existing senior and middle-management talent already existing in
the acquired company and to support it with adequate training and
reward. An important consideration is the practice of ‘fair process’16
that gains the loyalty and commitment of managers. Fair process is a
management practice based on combining those integration principles
that are advantageous to both efficiency and local entrepreneurship.
This has also the tremendous benefit of buying in the loyalty of the
employees, and the goodwill of governments and local communities. In
this way the acquirer positions itself as neither an intruder nor an
invader, but an insider.
MINI-CASE 8.1

The long road of global mergers in the telecoms
equipment industry

On 16 April 2015 Nokia announced that it would buy Alcatel-
Lucent for $16.6 billion. This announcement marked the latest in a
swirl of global mergers and acquisitions in the fast-evolving
telecoms equipment industry.
   The telecommunications equipment industry produces products
and services that are used to support telecommunication
services: wireless and landline infrastructure equipment (such as
cables, routers, exchanges), as well as handsets and mobile
phones. Since the invention of the telephone by Alexander
Graham Bell the telecommunication industry has been divided into
two segments: the equipment and the services. Originally, in
many countries, the services operators were national
government-owned companies. In the USA, the American
Telegraph and Telephone Company was involved in both
segments. In other parts of the world, national operators bought
equipment from national or nationally based producers. Hence the
development of strong national equipment producers: Ericsson in
Sweden, Alcatel in France, Nortel in Canada, NEC in Japan and
Nokia in Finland. The 1960s saw a series of developments that
transformed the industry, and still affect it today.
   First, technological development such as digitalization, the
opening of trade barriers and deregulation created the full or
partial denationalization of operators, while economies of scale
pushed firms toward concentration of competition.
   Second, the internet revolution introduced new technologies and
products such as routers, giving rise to crucial new markets that
were captured by new players such as Cisco in the USA or
Huawei in China.
   Third, mobile technology saw the creation of a new type of
internet-based technology: the smartphone, as initiated by Apple
and Samsung, modified the competitive landscape.
   This is the rapidly evolving background against which the
acquisition of Alcatel-Lucent by Nokia took place.
   Alcatel, created in 1879, was originally a giant French
conglomerate involved in power generation, transportation
equipment, and shipbuilding and telecommunications equipment.
In 1992, the non-telecoms businesses were divested and Alcatel
concentrated on telecommunications.
   In the USA, Lucent was spun off from American Telegraph and
Telephone (ATT), which itself had been created in 1876 under the
name of the Bell Company.
   Both Alcatel and Lucent were affected by the bursting of the
internet bubble in 2001, seeing revenues and profit decline as
telephone operators cut costs. In 2006 Alcatel and Lucent
merged. The two companies had very different cultures and
neither Alcatel nor Lucent had strong products in wireless
technologies. Changes in management and reorganizations were
not sufficient to keep a strong position in the telecoms equipment
industry dominated by Cisco, Huawei, Apple and Samsung.
   Nokia, founded in 1865 as a pulp and paper company,
developed as an industrial conglomerate involved in rubber and
cables. The mobile phone business, created in 1979, achieved
global predominance in the 1990s with its digital cellular handsets,
overtaking Motorola as the world number one producer of mobile
phones. In 2007 its global market share was 30 per cent.
However, Nokia did not manage to break into the smartphone
industry
   dominated by Apple’s iPhones and Samsung’s Android. By
2011, Nokia’s market share in mobile phones had declined from
30 per cent to 14 per cent. Despite cost cutting, Nokia was
unable to make its mobile phone business profitable again. The
company decided to sell this division to Microsoft and concentrate
on the supporting equipment business. Hence the decision to
acquire Alcatel-Lucent. However the integration of the two
companies proved to be difficult, hence the decision to cut 1,233
  jobs in French in 2020, creating an uproar in French political
  circles.

  Questions:

  1   What pushed those giant companies to join forces?
  2   Did Nokia made a good decision in acquiring Alcatel-Lucent?



Global alliances and joint ventures

Strategic alliances in a global context

An alliance can be defined as the sharing of capabilities between two
or more firms with a view to enhancing their competitive advantages
and/or creating new business without losing their respective strategic
autonomy. What makes an alliance strategic is that the sharing of
capabilities, such as R&D, manufacturing or marketing, affects the
long-term competitiveness of the firms involved and implies a relatively
long-term commitment of resources by partners.
   According to economists, a joint effort involving the contributions of
separate firms can be organized either through a market contract,
such as a buyer–supplier contract, or through the merger of
capabilities under a single management control, as in the case of a
merger, an acquisition or an internal development. An alliance falls
somewhere in between, when either full control by one partner is not
feasible for legal or practical reasons, or when a contract is difficult to
draw up because of the uncertainties involved. As a consequence, a
strategic alliance has been sometimes defined as ‘a governance
structure involving an incomplete contract between separate firms and
in which each partner has limited control’.17 An alliance represents an
incomplete contract to the extent that ‘it cannot specify fully what each
party should do under every conceivable condition’ and, therefore,
requires that both parties engage in some form of trusting, open-
ended relationship in which decision making is shared in order to best
allocate resources and distribute the outcome of the joint activity
according to the prevailing business conditions.
   International business and the pressure for globalization often make
alliances necessary. In the global context, four types of alliance can be
distinguished, which depend on the scope (global or local) and the
object (market access or capabilities enhancing), as in Figure 8.8.




Figure 8.8 Various types of alliance in a global context

   A global alliance would be one in which the objective is either to
develop a global market presence (global reach alliance) or to
enhance the worldwide competitive capabilities of the firms (global
leverage alliance).
   A local alliance would be one in which the objective for a foreign
company is either to penetrate a local market (alliance for market
entry) or to have access to a set of resources available in a particular
country (resource-based country alliance).
   Global and local alliances can take the form of joint ventures in
which the partners share the capital of a legal business entity or of
long-term contractual agreements.

Global alliances versus local alliances

Global alliances are much more complex and subtle in their strategic
and economic scope than traditional local alliances or local joint
ventures. Doz and Hamel (1998) distinguish three broad types of
strategic alliance:18

•    Market reach (what Doz and Hamel call ‘co-option’) are alliances
  of competitors, distributors and suppliers in the same industry
  pooling their capabilities with a view to spanning world markets (the
  search for ‘global reach’), to establish a common standard, or to
  share some capabilities in order to increase marketing
  effectiveness. Airline alliances such as ONEWORLD, SKYTEAM or
  STAR represent good examples of such alliances.
•     Global leverage alliances are alliances of firms that join their
  respective unique but complementary capabilities to create a
  business or develop new products or technology. What
  characterizes this type of alliance is that each partner contributes a
  unique asset, resource or competency. Combined together, the
  partners can realize all the capabilities needed for business
  development. Airbus and GE-SNECMA in the aerospace industry
  are examples of such alliances.
• The third form of alliance, learning alliances, is a particular form of
  agreement that serves as a vehicle for know-how transfer between
  partners. A classic example is the (now-defunct) alliance formed
  between Toyota and General Motors (GM), called the NUMMI
  project, in which the fundamental purpose for GM was to learn
  ‘lean’ manufacturing processes and for Toyota to learn how to
  operate in the highly unionized North American environment.
  Learning alliances can also be found in the multiple partnerships
  developed between pharmaceutical firms and biotech companies or
  in the telecom/internet industries.
Global strategic alliances differ from local joint ventures in four main
aspects:

•   First, they differ not only in their geographical scope – local versus
  global – but also in the complexity of their strategic objectives.
  While in the case of country-based joint ventures the objectives are
  straightforward, these are less obvious in the case of strategic
  alliances. Very often, market objectives are combined with
  technological learning or strategic options. Hidden agendas are
  more often present in strategic alliances than in joint ventures.
• Local joint ventures are based on a simple complementary scheme
  – market access against technology transfer – while strategic
  alliances have a more complicated strategic architecture. Often
  there is a mixture of complementary capabilities, consolidation of
  certain activities as well as technology transfer from both sides.
•    The valuation of strategic alliances is more difficult than for local
  joint ventures since they frequently involve contributions in intangible
  assets and know-how, and in most situations they take place in new
  and volatile products or processes.
•    Finally, in local joint ventures the value is created by the venture
  and distributed to the partner under the form of dividends or
  transfer pricing. In a strategic alliance value is created not only in
  the alliance but also outside the alliance through the applied learning
  that partners can utilize in other products of their own.

Local alliances (often referred to as joint ventures) have been
traditional vehicles for market entry since 1945 in countries that aimed
to welcome value-adding productive activities to their economy, while
still protecting their natural resources and promoting the strategic
development of national firms. Japan in the 1950s, and South Korea,
China, Indonesia and India in the 1960s are among the countries that
have systematically encouraged the formation of international joint
ventures between foreign investors and local firms. Although in these
countries the legal requirements for joint ventures have been relaxed
somewhat, a joint venture mindset remains. The logic of these joint
ventures is simple: it consists of an exchange of a market or
resources for technology. Foreign investors are invited to import their
products, processes and management technologies alongside their
capital in exchange for entry into the domestic market or access to
key natural resources. The value created by these local alliances is
straightforward: the value for the foreign partner is an increase in
market penetration and a set of profits coming from various sources –
dividends, transfer prices, management fees. The value for the local
partner is an increase in know-how, a flow of dividends and other
indirect cash flow such as rental fees, local procurement and so on.
   A joint venture is an ambiguous concept because it embraces
several forms of partnership, although most of the time a joint venture
is a separate legal entity in which two or more partners invest tangible
and intangible capital. Some countries, such as China, have set up the
concept of ‘contractual joint ventures’ that are a hybrid form of equity
and project partnership agreement, but these are relatively limited and
in practice the implications of their management are very similar to
equity joint ventures. In emerging markets, joint ventures have in the
past been the main form of foreign direct investment (FDI) and this
remains the case in some countries such as India.

Understanding the strategic context and spelling out the
strategic value of an alliance

Framework for analysis

The study of strategic alliances can be divided into four major steps,
as shown in Figure 8.9:

•   Understanding the strategic context and spelling out the strategic
  value of an alliance
• Partner or target analysis
• Negotiation and design
• Implementation.
Figure 8.9 Framework for the analysis of strategic alliances

In order to discuss in detail these different steps, we will take the
example of the long-lasting strategic alliance between the Japanese
company, Nissan, and the French company, Renault.

Strategic context

The starting point of any alliance analysis is a deep understanding of
the industry drivers and competitive forces that shape the prevailing
position of the partners and the challenges they confront. In the case
of Renault and Nissan, both companies had a strong strategic reason
to enter into an alliance and neither of them was capable of doing it
alone. Renault was a regional player that wanted to reach a global
scope while Nissan was on the verge of bankruptcy and needed a
solvent partner.
  From there the second step consists of determining a) the strategic
objectives of the alliance, that is, what the partnership is expected to
achieve; and b) setting the value expected from the alliance and
calculating the sources of value creation potential.
  Table 8.3 describes the main strategic objectives pursued in various
types of alliances.
Table 8.3 Main strategic objectives pursued in various types of alliance




Value potential

The value potential of the alliance is calculated on the basis of the
potential benefits it brings to the alliance partners involved. In theory, it
is a straightforward calculation consisting of two steps (see Figure
8.10 and numerical worked example shown in Insert 8.2):

•   Step one: value created by the alliance
•   Step two: value captured by each partner.
Figure 8.10 Economic value potential for each partner in an alliance

The value created by the alliance is driven by four factors:

•  Revenues generated by the alliance through volume of sales
•  Revenues generated by the alliance through the ability to command
  a high differentiated price
• Future revenues or cost benefits coming from joint R&D products
  or processes
• Cost benefits resulting from economies of scale and scope.

The value captured by partners comes from:

•  Distribution of the alliance profits when the alliance is structured as
  an autonomous economic entity
•       Profit generated by the sales of intermediary products,
  components or services by the alliance
•   Profits derived from products or processes developed thanks to
  the alliance – increased revenues or cost reductions coming from
  the alliance because of increased market reach or economies of
  scale or scope
•     Profits coming from other products whose sales are boosted
    because of the alliance.


    Insert 8.2 Numerical example of value
    creation and distribution in a joint venture
    Company AB is a country-based joint venture between A (the
    foreign investor) and B (a local partner).
      The joint venture agreement states that:

    •      The invested capital is $2,000,000 and the shareholding is
        divided 60 per cent for A and 40 per cent for B
    •       A is to receive 7 per cent royalties on sales of AB for
        technology transfer
    •      A is to be compensated $50,000/year for detachment of
        personnel costed at $20,000
    •     A also sells its own products via the joint venture, on which it
        makes 1 per cent net profit
    •     B is to lease out its land and factory for a net contribution of
        $30,000/year
    •     B uses its distribution network for selling A and AB products.
        For this it takes a 10 per cent commission
    •       Thanks to technology transfer B is able to improve its
        productivity and to reduce the costs of its own products by 10
        per cent

    What is the value created and the distribution of this value in Year
    One of AB’s operations? Assume that the distributed profits of
    the joint venture are 20 per cent on $2,000,000 sales of AB
    products plus $800,000 sales of A’s own products distributed by
    AB. Separately B sells $1,000,000 of its own product.
    Table 8.4 Value creation and distribution
       This example shows that the value extracted by partners in a
    joint venture goes far beyond the simple distribution of dividends.


   However, whatever the type of alliance, the value created by global
alliances is more difficult to assess than for a traditional joint venture
for market entry or natural resource access. According to Doz and
Hamel (1998), the reasons for this are:

•   Partners bring hard-to-value non-traded or intangible resources,
  assets or competencies
• The breakdown of relative contributions is often hard to assess
• Most of the time, much of the value accrues outside the alliance
•    The relative value to each partner may shift over time
•      Partners may not declare what real value they seek or receive
    from the alliance.19

Despite these difficulties, it is advisable to try to measure the value
expected from the alliance since it can serve as a yardstick to assess
its success or failure.
   In the case of Renault–Nissan, the value of the alliance came from
the synergies generated by common purchasing, common platforms,
joint development and cross-manufacturing.
Partner analysis
Partner analysis consists of determining the extent to which the
relationship with the proposed partner is viable and valuable. In a
similar fashion as the fit analysis described earlier for mergers and
acquisitions (Figure 8.3), partner analysis consists in determining
whether there is a fit between the company and its potential partner in
four domains (Figure 8.11):




Figure 8.11 Partner’s fit analysis in strategic alliances

•    Strategic fit
•    Capabilities fit
•    Cultural fit
•    Organizational fit.
Strategic fit

The purpose of strategic fit analysis is to assess the degree of
compatibility among the partners, given their respective explicit or
implicit strategic objectives. When stated objectives are explicit the
analysis is simple, but when there are implicit objectives (a hidden
agenda) behind the stated objectives, the analysis requires an in-depth
study of the partner’s strategic context – their competitive position and
managerial power structure – to unravel the ‘real’ expectations of the
other party. An analysis of strategic fit implies the following
assessments:

•   Criticality of the alliance for the partners
•   The relative competitive position of partners
•   The compatibility in strategic agendas.

Answering two very simple questions will evaluate the criticality of the
alliance for each partner:

•
•   How important is the alliance for the partners?
•   Do they need an alliance to achieve their objectives?

The answers to these two questions can be represented by two
different matrices, as in Figure 8.12, where we can assess the degree
of commitment expected from partners to the alliance.
Figure 8.12 Assessing the strategic fit based on the criticality of the alliance for partners

   The importance of the alliance for partners is determined on the
basis of the contextual analysis done earlier. If both partners have a
strong strategic stake in the business, you can expect a high
commitment that is favourable to a good fit. If the strategic importance
is unbalanced (it is important for one partner but not for the other),
there will be a divergence in commitment and the fit will be more
questionable. When both partners have a low strategic stake, you may
not expect a high degree of commitment from either partner, which by
itself represents a fit, but not a favourable one for the future of the
alliance. We may wonder, under such conditions, why they should
even consider a strategic partnership. The answer to that question can
be found in the theory of real options.20 Partners may consider the
alliance as a forward option for a future decision. In such a case, the
degree of commitment may be positive although there is a question
mark over what will happen when the option has to be called in or
forfeited.
   The ability to go it alone depends on the existing resources – assets
and competencies – that each partner possesses at the time, and the
degree of time pressure on them. Again, when both parties do not
have the necessary capability to venture alone, there is a strong
incentive for and commitment to the alliance provided that the
capability fit is favourable, as we shall see. Otherwise, an unbalanced
situation will create the conditions for a poor fit. When both partners
have the capability to proceed alone, the only condition under which
the commitment would be favourable is if time pressure obliged them
to share the tasks in order to accelerate their business entry. Renault
had developed strong capabilities in car design and in an efficient
supply chain while Nissan was excellent in engineering and quality
management. The car models complemented each other somewhat,
and in terms of geographical presence Renault was strong in Europe
and Nissan in Asia and the USA.
   The relative competitive position of partners is a second important
parameter to investigate when assessing a strategic fit. Doz and
Hamel (1998: ch. 4) have developed a typology of competitive
positions and postulated their mutual degree of fitness depending upon
the type of alliance.
   They class competitors in three broad categories: leaders
(dominant firms in the industry), challengers (second-tier firms in the
industry) and laggards (firms which need to catch up). They conclude
that alliances among leaders are plagued with problems.
   The last part of strategic assessment is the confrontation of the
strategic agendas and their resulting expectations. There are four
kinds of strategic agenda:

•   Venturing agendas
•   Extractive agendas
•   Sharing agendas
•   Options agendas.

In venturing agendas partners have a deliberate desire to engage in
collaboration to create a business. Their prime motivation is to see the
alliance grow and flourish, and they get their reward from the
continuation of a successful partnership.
   Extractive agendas have a different logic: the objective is to ‘learn’
or to ‘acquire’ capabilities from the partner or from the alliance. The
prospects of a fit in such a case are short term: as long as the
partners get the necessary capabilities they stick to the alliance, but
as soon as the learning or acquisition goal is achieved, the strategic
value of the alliance vanishes.
   Sharing agendas are limited ones, their prime objective being to
maximize efficiency in certain elements of the value chain through
economies of scale and scope. Airline alliances are of that nature:
they share flight codes, lounges, frequent flyer programmes and
sometimes aircraft maintenance.
   Options agendas, as noted earlier, are based on the desire for
partners to ‘have a look’ without committing vast amounts of
resources, using the alliance as an experimental platform for
monitoring the business. As in any option, such an agenda has a time
limit, at the end of which partners have to make up their mind: break
the alliance and continue alone or continue and expand the alliance.
   Figure 8.13 gives a graphical representation of those various types
of strategic agendas and their combinations.




Figure 8.13 Strategic fit against partners’ strategic agendas


Capabilities fit

The objective of a capabilities fit analysis is to assess the extent to
which partners are capable of contributing to the necessary
competitive capabilities of the business. Capabilities fit analysis in the
case of strategic alliances and joint ventures is similar to the one
described earlier for mergers and acquisitions (see Figure 8.4).
   The framework for this analysis is straightforward. It consists of
determining the specific contribution that each partner can make to
each element of the value chain, based on declared or supposed
resource assets and competencies. The last phase of the analysis
determines the potential gap to be filled by joint investment before
finally making an evaluation of whether the mutual contributions plus
the additional investments make the future alliance effective.

Cultural and organizational fits
The assessment of cultural and organizational differences as in the
case of mergers and acquisitions are an important part of partner’s
analysis in strategic alliances. Given the fact that each partner in an
alliance keeps its strategic and organizational autonomy, cultural and
organizational clashes can affect the long standing of the deal. From a
methodological point of view the analysis is similar to the ones
described earlier for mergers and acquisitions.

Negotiation and design

Operational scope

One of the first essentials is to agree on the organizational design and
the operational content of the alliance. When deciding on the
organizational design, the parties have to choose between two
approaches according to the degree of operational capabilities they
want to give to the alliance structure. There are four generic types of
alliance design, depending on whether the structure has full operating
capabilities or acts as a broker and also whether it is a market reach,
global leverage or a learning alliance (Figure 8.14).




Figure 8.14 Organizational designs in alliances
   In broker designs, the alliance structure acts as an intermediary
between the partners, which retain their own operational capabilities
(resources, assets and competencies). Broker structures can be
either in the form of a project management or coordination structure,
or alternatively can consist of a series of joint committees. When the
alliance is a coalition or a co-specialization, the alliance structure is
generally similar to a project team or a coordination structure.
Renault–Nissan adopted this design. The partners formed an
independent legal entity named Renault–Nissan BV incorporated in
Holland, in which each company owned 50 per cent. The role of this
joint venture would be to coordinate activities between the two parties.
Each company worked on its own R&D, manufacturing and servicing
on the basis of a strategic plan decided upfront. This structure owns
no assets and the people working in it are essentially relationship
managers. In the case of learning alliances, broker designs will consist
generally of joint committees. For instance, in the case of the Alza–
Ciba-Geigy alliance for advanced drug delivery systems, the design of
the partnership was based on the regular meeting of three
committees: an audit committee, a joint research board and the board
of a series of joint research conferences.21
   The operator alliance structure owns and operates its own
operational capabilities, which are either transferred to it by the parent
companies or built and developed by the alliance with capital injected
by the parents. Again, an operator design can take two different
forms: self-contained or transfer platform.
   In self-contained designs, the alliance structure creates economic
value by itself and distributes it to the parent shareholders, as in any
company. An example of a highly successful alliance of this type can
be found with Fuji Xerox, which develops, manufactures and markets
products with a high degree of autonomy from the parents.
   Transfer platform designs are structures in which the joint venture
controls its own resources, assets and competencies and therefore is
fully responsible for creating the value. But in such designs, partners
allocate engineers and staff to the joint venture with the view of
‘learning’ from the other partner and from the alliance. As discussed
previously, a good example is the NUMMI 50/50 joint venture between
Toyota and General Motors. General Motors allocated a factory at
Fremont, California, and transferred 2,500 workers plus around 25
engineers to the joint venture. Toyota brought managers and
specialists in ‘lean’ manufacturing systems. NUMMI could be
considered as a transfer platform for Toyota to learn how to operate
in an American unionized environment, while GM learnt how to
implement ‘lean’ manufacturing systems.

Interface and governance

Deciding on the interface and governance mechanisms for the alliance
is probably the most difficult part of the negotiation between partners.
Six domains have to be agreed:
• The legal structure and the decision-making mechanisms
• The degree of task integration
• The appointment of executives
• The distribution of value
• The reporting and communication processes
• The conflict resolution mechanisms.

As far as the legal structure is concerned, the majority of alliances will
be created under the form of a joint venture company, in which the
respective equity shares will be clearly defined and valuations of
contributions and results isolated from the parent companies’ own
accounts. In joint ventures, executive power is granted to a board of
directors where each partner has seats corresponding to their equity
share. Boards appoint operating executives, who in turn are
responsible for producing results with the collaboration of personnel
directly recruited by them or ‘transferred’ by the parent companies.
Minority partners may negotiate some ‘concurrence’ clauses for
certain key decisions that give them the right of veto (see below). The
articles of association will determine the various elements of the
agreement. Figure 8.15 shows the various items that would typically
be negotiated and included in a joint venture.
Figure 8.15 Typical items in a joint venture agreement

  Joint ventures are not the only legal form that alliances can take.
Four other types of legal mechanism that are commonly found in
global alliances are:

1  Equity participation by one partner in the capital of the other. This
  type of legal structure is very close to an acquisition, but, in reality,
  as long as the equity partner does not get full control of the
  operation, it is still considered to be an alliance.
2 Joint equity participation, in which one partner takes a
  shareholding in the other partner’s capital. This kind of agreement
  has to be complemented by contractual arrangements that define
  the scope of the joint activities and their respective valuations. This
  was the case with the now-defunct alliance between Renault and
  Volvo. In that case, the joint equity was supposed to be the prelude
  to a merger that was ultimately refused by Volvo’s shareholders.
3 Long-term contract agreements, such as distribution agreements
  or manufacturing agreements. Cisco, for instance, manufactures 75
  per cent of its products with external suppliers with whom it has
  long-term relationships.
4 R&D joint projects.

Legal structure and decision-making mechanism

When negotiating an alliance agreement, the majority of executives
insist on having ‘control’, meaning that they want to obtain the majority
shareholding in a joint venture. Many academic studies have found that
this is one of the requirements stated by most managers surveyed.
However, research has also found that ‘control’ is not correlated with
‘success’.22 In fact, a legal majority control only guarantees a fraction
of the total control over a company or a set of operations. First, there
is the possibility for a minority partner to activate ‘concurrence’
clauses that may limit the power of the majority and ultimately block
decisions. You can perceive intuitively that control is real if, and only if,
a person or a group of persons is able positively and negatively to
influence behaviour. A majority shareholding does not guarantee that.
Some authors have even argued that a 50/50 joint venture
arrangement is even better than a majority arrangement because it
forces partners to make every necessary effort to make the alliance
work.23

The degree of task integration

Task integration defines which activities are carried out by the alliance,
which ones are carried out separately, and the extent to which
activities carried out by each partner need to be integrated. For
instance, when the task is to jointly develop a new product, R&D
departments often need to be merged, at least partially, while if the
alliance is only a sharing of distribution networks, the amount of
interdependency between the two networks may be limited.
Integration requires coordination and joint work and therefore is likely
to demand complex management approaches. Alternatively, if
integration is limited, each party fulfils its obligations separately,
making coordination straightforward and simple. Limited integration is
possible if tasks are defined precisely upfront and the joint output is
obtained by ‘assembling’ the separate outputs with limited interactions.
This is a ‘plug-in’ operation. The synergies are structured only for a
certain number of tasks and, except for the procurement of
components, most of the other interactions are organized according to
a mode of technology transfer. When the task complexity is such that
clear separation of job distribution is not possible, then a self-
contained joint venture, in which teams are temporarily merged, is the
best solution. Otherwise, coordination of interdependencies could
prove to be a hurdle.

Appointment of executives

Who to appoint as the alliance leader is often a major factor in the
success of the venture, as well as a subject of contention between
partners as they negotiate the agreement. Two key issues arise: the
amount of parents’ transfers and the skills of alliance managers.
Figure 8.16 Management skills needed in alliances
Source: Authors’ own figure based on personal experience and inspired by Spekeman and Lynn
(2000); Yoshino and Rangan (1995); Greve et al. (2013).

   Parents’ transfer refers to the allocation of managers and staff from
each parent to the venture, as opposed to the independent staffing of
the alliance structure. When the alliance is a co-specialization or one
of reciprocal learning, partners’ transfer is expected to be high since
the whole purpose is to activate the unique capabilities of partners.
Alternatively, when the alliance is a coalition or co-learning (both
partners want to learn from the alliance but not necessarily from each
other), people transfer is less of an issue.
   In the case of transfer, the problem arises of the distribution of
functions and roles. One technique, known as the ‘shadow’
organization, consists of putting a manager from one partner in charge
of a function with a manager from the other partner as their deputy.
This technique seems appealing because of its apparent fairness, but
it is not necessarily effective, since it can reinforce a ‘them and us’
attitude and leads to a longer decision-making process and possibly
more conflicts. In the case of Renault and Nissan, twenty-one Renault
managers were transferred to Nissan in order to participate in the
Nissan Revival Plan. In addition, French personnel were temporarily
detached to the CCTs or the CFTs.
   The second important consideration is to select managers with the
appropriate skills to manage the alliance.
   Several authors have identified the leadership skills needed to
manage an alliance.24 Figure 8.16 gives a summary of their findings.
Of particular importance are the communication and negotiation skills
of managers in the alliances.

Distribution of value

As mentioned earlier, an alliance creates value and this value has to
be distributed to the partners according to an agreed scheme. Owing
to the fact that valuation is complex, alliance negotiators often have
difficulty in finding a ‘fair’ mechanism that takes into consideration all
the elements that contribute to value. The simplest form is the
distribution of profits in a joint venture. This works only if the entire
profit is created by the joint venture without any significant input apart
from the partners’ initial capital. When profit is dependent on inputs
provided by the parents, there is a high risk of transfer pricing
disputes. In the case of Renault–Nissan there is no issue of value
transfer since each company generates its own revenues and profits.
As cross-shareholders, each company benefits from the profits
generated by the other in proportion to its ownership.
   In a revenue-sharing scheme each partner receives the revenues
generated by the alliance proportionate to their share of work. Then it
is up to each partner to manage its costs and to generate profit. This
method implies that there is an upfront agreement on work sharing. If
that is the case, the partners are already familiar with the technology
involved and have a pretty good awareness of the relative importance
of the work to be completed by each party. An example of this type
can be found in the case of GE–SNECMA, a long-lasting alliance in
the aero-engine industry.25 Corrective mechanisms were included in
case a work discrepancy appeared during the implementation of the
alliance.

Reporting and communication processes

Alliance agreements should provide communication platforms so that
partners remain informed about the development of the venture.
Academic research has stressed the importance of communication at
all levels in the success of alliances.26 The legal forum for
communication in a joint venture is the board of directors, but this is
not enough. Communication needs to be organized horizontally and
vertically among partners and within partners. It is particularly
important to involve and engage the people at middle and low levels
within each organization. These are the employees who will have to
run the operations and, not having been involved in the negotiations,
they need to understand the objectives and appreciate the value of
making the alliance a success.
   In the case of Renault–Nissan, communication is mediated within the
CFTs and CCTs under the responsibility of Renault–Nissan BV. A large
number of middle-level employees are involved in these committees.

Conflict resolution mechanisms

Friction and conflict are almost inevitable. As will be seen later,
disenchantment, frustration and conflict of interests may surface
rapidly after the deal is consummated (the ‘death valley’ problem
illustrated in Figure 8.17) or during the life of the alliance.
Figure 8.17 The death valley spiral

  All contracts include legal provision for conflict management
between shareholders in joint ventures by arbitrage clauses. The real
problem is not these legal mechanisms – which in many cases are
only employed when the two parties have more or less already
decided to terminate their agreements – but the difficulty of creating
the internal mechanisms for solving problems before they can escalate
to the arbitrage stage. In the case of Renault–Nissan, for instance,
potential disagreements are dealt with by the joint strategic
organization Renault–Nissan BV.

Implementation
The last stage in alliance management, but not the least, is the
implementation stage. Two different aspects of implementation have
been identified as critical: integration and cooperation, and learning.

Integration and cooperation

Once the alliance has been formed the immediate implementation
phase is to put the respective companies and the alliance structure to
work so that the teams allocated to the alliance achieve the planned
output. This phase is frequently operationalized by ‘integration teams’.
Integration teams are functional working groups of managers from the
different partners who have been assigned the task of identifying and
resolving the practical considerations of implementing the alliance. This
covers items such as which processes to adopt, which IT platform to
install, the kind of measurements to adopt, how to manage
relationships with third parties, which accounting system to use and so
on. Integration teams are important because they offer the first
opportunity to work together in a concrete fashion. Cultural differences
are discovered, as well as practical issues that were not anticipated
during the negotiation phase. The way these unanticipated issues are
handled sets the initial tone for relationships and demonstrates the
actual mindset of partners. Since integration teams are staffed with
operational people, of whom a large majority did not participate in the
alliance negotiations, their attitudes and perspectives have to be
‘shaped’ by their respective management teams. An ‘internal selling
job’ is often needed to erode fears or misinterpretation of the
alliance’s value; trade unions have to be convinced that the alliance is
not designed to eliminate jobs and cultural stereotypes have to be
challenged through internal training sessions.
   Despite all these preparatory efforts, what is called the ‘death
valley’ issue often arises. This model was inspired by many global
alliances, and is based on the fact that surprises and unanticipated
events or behaviour occur frequently during alliance implementation. If
not properly prepared, managers may retreat into blaming and
stereotyping – particularly cultural stereotyping – instead of coping
with the stress and anxiety provoked by any surprises. A vicious spiral
then develops (see Figure 8.17) in which communications are shut off
and the viability of the alliance is called into question. Since
encountering such a ‘death valley’ scenario is almost inevitable at
some point, companies that frequently engage in global alliances
should prepare their managers to cope with the situation, to avoid
blaming and stereotyping and to look for win–win solutions.

Learning

As we have seen earlier, some types of partnership are specially
designed as learning alliances, but all alliances in practice involve
some kind of learning. There are two forms of learning:

•   Learning from the alliance, or co-learning: what the partners learn
  within the alliance
• Learning from the partners, or captured learning: what the partners
  learn from each other.

Learning from the alliance27

In implementing alliances, partners can learn:

•   About the business
•   About the tasks
•   About partners’ expectations and capabilities.

Partners discover jointly the characteristics and trends of markets, the
industry and its competitive drivers. This kind of learning is normal in
any venture, whether joint or not. The specific issue in the case of a
partnership is to put in place the organizational mechanisms for such
learning to take place and to be distributed to partners. This is done
by setting up and using common databases, and possibly, with the
advent of e-business platforms, by integrating the joint venture
database with the partner’s intranet software. In addition, the alliance
structure should organize reflective and analytical forums for joint
planning, seminars, conferences and review sessions.
   Partners should also be able to redefine their mutual contributions
and work processes in the light of new events and changes in
business context. Functional committees and operational reviews can
facilitate such mutual adjustments. Over time, partners’ expectations
may change and imbalances in the value distribution may appear. This
kind of change is obviously one of the most difficult to handle since a
change in expectations may undermine the initial alliance’s foundations.
Constant monitoring for potential triggers for change in a partner’s
internal context, such as a new CEO, modification of strategic
direction, analyst opinions and so on, helps to predict the likelihood of
a shift in expectations. One potential issue in the case of Renault and
Nissan would be that one partner becomes highly successful
commercially and financially while the other lags behind. Over time
that may create an imbalance leading to a reconsideration of the
alliance.

Learning from the partner

In 1986 Reich and Mankin published an explosive article titled ‘Joint
ventures with Japan give away our future’. In a more moderate vein,
Doz, Hamel and Prahalad argued in 1989 that Western partners could
use alliances to regain competitiveness against Japanese competitors.
They gave as an example the case of Thomson Multimedia, which
gained expertise in the design and manufacture of video recorders
thanks to its alliance with a joint venture company.
   In both cases, the arguments were based on ‘learning from the
partner’ in an alliance context. In practice a ‘learning from the partner’
approach requires two key capabilities: clarity of objectives and
organizational receptivity.
   Clarity of objectives implies that the company engaged in an alliance
for learning should identify clearly what it wants to learn and set up a
learning agenda defining the learning sequence. All capabilities cannot
be learned at once. Thomson embarked on a step-by-step approach
to learning first the assembly of VCR components, and then the ability
to design and manufacture next-generation products such as handheld
mini video cameras.
   Receptivity is the second type of learning capability. It consists of
the various internal organization mechanisms that companies engaged
in alliances may use to accumulate, retain and transfer knowledge.
Table 8.5 gives a list of such weak and strong learning mechanisms.
Table 8.5 Receptivity in learning


 Weak learning capabilities          Strong learning capabilities
 •    No systematic collection of    •   Organized intelligence
     information
 •    No sharing of information       •    Networked internal
                                          information exchange
 •    ‘Not invented here’ attitudes   •    ‘Why’ attitude, curiosity,
                                          search for benchmarking and
                                          outside best practices
 •    No ‘organizational memory’      •    Planned approach to skill
                                          acquisition
 •    Pressure to achieve only        •   Internal training
     operational/financial results
 •    Recruitment of people based     •  Allocation of time and
     only on technical professional     budgets to ‘learn’
     skills                           • Recruitment of people based
                                        on ‘social’ as well as
                                        professional skills


Global multilateral alliances28
Most of the discussions in this chapter have been centred around
dyadic alliances involving only two partners. In practice, global
companies are often engaged in a multiplicity of alliances, some of
them domestic, but the vast majority with ‘foreign’ partners.
   Each product division of multi-business corporations is engaged in
multiple alliances, so that if you were to count the total number of
strategic partnerships for the whole corporation, you might find several
hundred, as in the case of IBM, Motorola or Siemens.
   Gomez-Casseres has classed these alliances as ‘constellations’ in
which partners are cooperating in one business segment but possibly
competing in another.29
   Doz and Hamel identify three types of constellation (see Figure
8.18):
Figure 8.18 Types of alliance constellations
Source: Authors’ own figure, based on text of Doz and Hamel (1998).

•   Alliance networks
•   Alliance portfolios
•   Alliance webs.

   Alliance networks are those to which partners contribute to increase
reach, adopt a common standard or promote a new technology. Visa
(credit card), SWIFT (banking) and STAR (airlines) are alliances of
this nature. As in a club, several partners contribute and benefit from
the alliance provided they subscribe to the rules and discipline of the
network. It is a ‘one alliance, multiple partners’ design.
   Alliance portfolios are those in which a company enters a
partnership with multiple companies, with different products,
technologies or markets. The company deals with its partner as a
portfolio, or on a one-to-one basis. There is no interaction among
partners, only between partners and the ‘core’ party. This is a ‘one
partner, several alliances’ design. Nestlé is a good example.
   Alliance webs are constellations in which partners contribute and
benefit interdependently in a ‘several partners, several alliances’
design. Since the 1990s, Airbus has functioned as a ‘global web’. In an
alliance web, you can find some characteristics of alliance networks (a
common platform) or of alliance portfolios (one company in the web
may have a central nuclear position) but the relationships among
partners are more equal and interdependent than in alliance portfolios
and even more so than in alliance networks.
  Constellations of global partners put a high degree of constraint on
companies, because of their complexity and diversity. Managerial
challenges can arise at two levels:

•    At the alliance level: how to make it work?
•     At the partners’ level: how to cope with multiple alliances, and in
    each alliance how to manage the relationships with other parties?




Figure 8.19 Nestlé Alliances Portfolio
Source: https://www.nestle.com/randd/partnerships (accessed 1 August 2020).

   Alliance webs are constellations in which partners contribute and
benefit interdependently in a ‘several partners, several alliances’
design. Since the 1990s, Airbus has functioned as a ‘global web’.
Similarly Arqus, an European universities alliance, is an example of a
constellation alliance (Figure 8.20). In an alliance web, you can find
some characteristics of alliance networks (a common platform) or of
alliance portfolios (one company in the web may have a central
nuclear position) but the relationships among partners are more equal
and interdependent than in alliance portfolios and even more so than in
alliance networks.




Figure 8.20 Arqus European universities alliances
Source: https://www.arqus-alliance.eu (accessed 1 August 2020).

  Constellations of global partners put a high degree of constraint on
companies, because of their complexity and diversity. Managerial
challenges can arise at two levels:

•    At the alliance level: how to make it work?
•     At the partners’ level: how to cope with multiple alliances, and in
    each alliance how to manage the relationships with other parties?

Depending upon the type of alliance, the managerial challenges will
typically address four kinds of issues: first, alliance creation and
mobilization; second, partners selection and attraction; third, alliance
governance and maintenance; and fourth, partnership leverage and
relationships.

1      Alliance creation and mobilization. Both alliance creation and
  mobilization depend on core companies or on an outsider. This can
  be a government body or a new technology developer. In the case
  of a portfolio network the initiative relies on the core company to
  identify the benefits of those alliances and to ‘sell’ them to multiple
  partners on a one-to-one basis. In the case of a platform network
  the initiative relies on one initial member or a group of members
  who creates an institutional body that can be a corporation, as in
  the case of Visa, a cooperative, as in the case of Skyteam, or a
  non-government organization (NGO), as in the case of the
  International Olympic Committee, to which members adhere.
  When the benefits of the alliance are obvious, as in the case of
  airline alliances, the task may be relatively easy, although the key
  element in that case is to make sure that alliance members are
  sufficiently compatible among themselves. In the case of a web
  alliance network the initiative takes place though multiple dyadic
  agreements. Eventually web alliances can create a coordinating
  organization similar to the one found in platform networks.
2 Partner selection and attraction. In an alliance portfolio, the prime
  objective for the ‘nodal’ firm (the portfolio manager) is to utilize a
  multiplicity of co-specialized, co-allied and learning alliances in
  order to foster its global competitive capabilities. In selecting
  partners, the ‘nodal’ firm will look at firms bringing the necessary
  complementary capabilities but which are not likely to take
  advantage of the alliance in order to build their own competing
  capabilities. Corning, for instance, in its alliances with Siemens to
  develop, manufacture and sell optic fibers for communication,
  selected a partner that was not interested in building a competitive
  position in the design and production of fibers, but only in their
  utilization. In the case of platform alliances members apply to the
  governing institutions who decide on their admittance. In web
  alliances members are co-opted on a one-to-one basis with the
  possible agreement of the institutionalized coordinating body.
3   Alliance governance and maintenance. There are multiple forms of
  governance as there are multiple forms of alliances (Doz 2019). As
  far as portfolio networks and platform networks are concerned,
  Lorenzoni and Baden-Fuller (1997) suggest alliance networks must
  establish a centre or a ‘network manager’, whose role is to make
  sure the partners contribute fairly to the partnership and respect
  the common rules. Alliance managers also serve as an information
  exchange and clearing house for mutual transaction. As mentioned
  earlier, alliance managers work in an appropriate organizational
  structure that has been created. As in the case of a web alliance
  network the maintenance of an alliance relies on the multiple
  alliance managers in the members’ companies, with frequent
  meetings of members organized by a supporting ‘governing body’.
4        Managing partner leverage and relationships. The ‘nodal’
  organization, when there is one, in the case of portfolio networks
  and platform networks, will make sure that the ‘relevant’
  capabilities are obtained from the alliance, but also that it
  contributes positively and significantly to the partners’ expectations.
  By keeping a partnership as a one-to-one relationship, the ‘nodal’
  firm builds a set of converging capabilities that are not shared by
  the whole constellation of partners. In alliance webs, in contrast,
  the task of the ‘nodal’ firm is to build an interdependent set of
  mutual relationships to which each participant contributes but gains
  from all the others. Pixtech, for instance, has built a web of
  partners for the development of field emission display (FED)
  technology for flat panel displays to be used in a variety of
  applications. Partners entering the alliance have to demonstrate
  their commitment by opening their R&D labs (the FED-related
  technology) to other partners. Each party has to host meetings in
  its own facilities for alliance members to exchange their research
  progress. Reciprocal patent licensing is also involved in this type of
  alliance.


    Insert 8.3 GAVI global vaccine alliance
In 2000, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Nelson Mandela
and the World Health Organization created an international
organization – Global Vaccination Alliance (GAVI). Its long-term
mission was to eradicate infectious diseases through the
vaccination of children. The idea was to bring together public and
private sectors with the shared goal of creating equal access to
new and underused vaccines for children living in the world’s
poorest countries.
   In June 2019, the Gavi Board approved a new five-year
strategy (‘Gavi 5.0’) with a vision to ‘leave no-one behind with
immunisation’ and a mission to save lives and protect people’s
health by increasing equitable and sustainable use of vaccines.
   By 2020 GAVI has helped to vaccinate more than 760 million
children in fifteen of the world’s poorest countries, preventing
more than 13 million deaths.
   The alliance partners are represented below.




Figure 8.21 Alliance partners in GAVI


Governance
    The Gavi Alliance has international institution status in Switzerland
    and public charity status in the United States.
       While the Gavi Secretariat oversees the day-to-day operations
    of the Vaccine Alliance, the Board is responsible for giving
    strategic direction and policy-making. These are the people,
    policies and processes that govern Gavi.
       Some of the partners have a financing role, while others have
    an operational role in vaccine research, production, logistics and
    delivery.
    Source: https://www.gavi.org; Doz (2019).




Global industrial ecosystems
The biological concept of the ecosystem has been used in industrial
economics.30 There are many definitions of industrial ecosystems. We
will retain the following definition: ‘An industrial ecosystem is group of
interacting firms that depend on each other’s activities.’31 It can be
considered as a quasi-alliance to the extent to which there is a mutual
destiny of all members, although contrary to multilateral alliances
described earlier, there is no formal organizational architecture and no
overreaching contractual legal arrangement that governs the
organization and the strategy and relationships among members. In
most ecosystems there may be some clusters that are regulated by
commercial suppliers–buyers contracts, however, this is not the case
for all members of the ecosystem. What is important for a firm is to
define the relevant ecosystem to which it belongs – that is to say, the
one it can influence.
   One may identify three types of industrial ecosystem:

1     The Lead firm:32 ecosytem in which a company plays a central
     role the regulates the system. For instance Apple (Figure 8.23),
     Airbus, Amazon.
2  The Value-proposition: ecosytem in which the dominant factor are
  the consumers. For instance the long-distance air travel ecosystem
  (Figure 8.24),
3 The Technology-centred ecosystem: for instance the electric car
  (see Figure 8.25 on page 338), cancer treatment, 5G.

Some ecosystems may be purely national (American football) while
the large majority have an international or global participation.




Figure 8.22 Lead firm ecosystem: a simplified view of Apple iPhone ecosytem




Figure 8.23 Simplified example of a value proposition ecosystem: long-distance travel
ecosytem
   Ecosystems per se do not elaborate on strategies except possibly
in the case of a ‘Lead firm ecosystem in which the lead firm can
influence the system in order to foster it competitive advantage as
advocated by Williamson and Meyer’.33 Another case of potential
strategy formulation for an ecosystem can be found in government
effort to develop some sort of state planification at the industry level.
For instance the French government in 2020 organized a ‘National
Council for Industries for 18 Sectors’ ecosystem which grouped
government experts, industrialists, and trade unionists together for the
elaboration of policies in each sector such as construction, marine
industries or health industries.34




Figure 8.24 Example of a technology-centred ecosytem: electrical vehicle ecosytem
Source: Zulkarnain et al. (2014).


Joint ventures for local market entry
This section examines joint ventures for market entry in particular. This
type of alliance has a local focus: typically, as seen in Chapter 7, a
global firm teams up with a local partner to form a joint venture
company. It is a way for a global firm to enter a local market either as
required by the government or by the desire to acquire operational
capabilities. Most of the issues described earlier in the case of global
alliances will apply in the case of local joint ventures. Below we focus
on the issue of partner selection.

Local partners

The type of partner to be selected is a function of the strategic
dimensions mentioned earlier. One distinguishes several types of
partners:

•       Complementing partner: a partner who brings operational
  capabilities to the venture.
• Investor: a partner who only plays the role of shareholder without
  engaging in operations. This type of partner is considered when one
  party believes that it possesses sufficient operational capabilities by
  itself.
•    Diversifier: a partner who engages in an alliance with a view to
  entering a new business and using the other partner’s product and
  knowledge.
•    Political partner: in the case of a joint venture for market entry if
  the local government requires or imposes a local partner whose
  contribution is to offer its political presence.

Investors, political partners and sometimes diversifiers may not
interfere in the management of the alliances; they are often referred to
as dormant or sleeping partners. Table 8.6 shows the various types of
partners’ contributions, advantages and disadvantages.
Table 8.6 Types of local partner for market entry joint ventures


    Partners contributing to Partners contributing to non-operational
    operational capabilities resources
    •    Partner in the             •    Diversifier: brings business
        same industry:                  reputation and country knowledge
     brings full                 and looks to enter into a new
     capabilities                business

 •    Supplier: secures      •    Investor: brings finance, looks for
     supplies                    return
 •    Distributor:           •    Central or local government: looks
     secures market              for development and jobs and brings
     coverage                    authority
 •    Customer:              •    Political partner: brings contacts and
     secures market              looks for
 •    Advantages:            •    Advantages: speeds up entry, brings
     enhances                    knowledge, contacts
     competitive
     capabilities and
     speeds up entry
 •    Disadvantages:         •    Disadvantages: does not provide
     risks of copying and        operational capabilities; political risks
     reinforcing/ creating       exposure when the partner is a
     a local competitor          government body or a political partner

   In any case the selection of a potential partner has crucial, long-
term consequences. It is important to find a partner with compatible
objectives, and with whom it is possible to communicate and build a
stable, lasting partnership. The foreign firm’s success will depend on
the partner’s capabilities and willingness to cooperate, and the climate
of mutual trust. Often, firms conduct far too little advance planning. In
Asia Pacific (see Lasserre 1984: 43–9) for instance, where joint
venture had been a predominant entry mode, Western foreign firms
conducted little or no screening and, in many cases, ended up
choosing a long-term local agent or distributor without researching
alternatives.
   To investigate potential partners thoroughly, foreign firms should:
•    Request information
•    Interview in depth the owner, top managers and operating staff in
    manufacturing and sales
•  Ask for financial data (although these may be of limited value, and
  possibly selectively presented to look as attractive as possible)
•   Interview the local firm’s other joint venture partners, bankers,
  suppliers, customers and competitors, as well as diplomats and
  established foreign investors.

Selection criteria

As already described for global alliances, the assessment of fit is an
important selection criterion (see Figure 8.11).

1     A strategic fit exists when the two partners have compatible long-
    term objectives. They will pool some of their resources to reach
    goals that they cannot attain alone. Assessing strategic fit involves
    analysing the partners’ implicit or explicit motives for joining forces,
    as well as the benefits they expect to gain. In joint ventures for
    market entry, you typically find three main types of agenda behind
    the strategic objectives for engaging in joint ventures:
    •      The venturing agenda, in which the two partners want to
       develop the potential of a given market by creating a new
       business activity. In this case, the primary intention is to join
       forces rather than to take advantage of the other partner.
    • The extractive agenda, in which one partner wants to acquire a
       key resource, asset or competency from the other. Local
       partners typically seek product or process technology, hardware
       and software from foreign joint ventures. They may also want to
       gain access to international markets. Foreign partners often use
       joint ventures to build relationships and win market access, or to
       make upfront profits through high transfer pricing on equipment,
       components or management services. Sometimes they are more
       interested in access to raw materials or low-cost labour rather
       than in promoting the business of the joint venture itself.
   •   The opportunistic agenda, in which the local partner may want
     to capitalize on citizenship and political contacts, or seek a
     financial return. The foreign partner may be complying with
     regulations, or want to enter into a short-term deal.
   A classic example of conflicting goals would be a foreign partner
   that wants to acquire marketing expertise and a local partner
   looking for technological expertise.
      The degree of commitment to the joint venture is particularly
   important: the moment of truth comes when unexpected problems
   arise in day-to-day operations. Even if individual managers
   assigned to a joint venture are committed, the two parents may
   give it relatively low priority. When a cooperative agreement is
   purely opportunistic, commitment is problematic, which is why
   many opportunistic partnerships end in failure.
2 A good capabilities fit means that both partners must be able to
  contribute to the resources and competencies needed; they must
  identify and solve potential gaps in contribution. The same
  methodology for assessment of capabilities fit that was developed
  earlier applies to joint ventures for market entry. What is
  particularly significant in emerging countries is the fact that, due to
  poor information, a good capability fit analysis is difficult. A classic
  mistake is to overestimate your partner’s contribution to the joint
  venture. Problems also arise when initial resources, assets and
  competencies become insufficient to sustain competitiveness over
  time. New funding will be needed; profits will have to be reinvested
  into the business. A short-term orientation, opportunism or simply
  the inconsistency of one or both partners may aggravate a
  potential resource gap.
      Valuing contributions that do not have a market price, because
   they are either not traded or intangible, can cause conflict.
   Intangibles and technology are often the most valuable
   contributions brought to a joint venture, and can become a key
   element in the negotiation.
3 Cultural dissimilarity emanating from corporate, industry or
  national and ethnic differences is always present in international
  joint ventures, and can create many problems and conflicts when it
  comes to the practical operations of the venture. As already
  indicated, cultural differences often lead to a difficult period of
  adaptation, called the ‘death valley’, that requires patience and
  flexibility on the part of managers to successfully get through. It is
  therefore important that prior to any agreement a cultural fit
  assessment be made to address questions such as: can we
  understand each other? Do we speak the same business
  language? Do we share a common logic? Can we communicate
  with each other?
4 Finally, the result of an organizational fit analysis reveals profound
  differences in management practices. Most often in emerging
  countries a local entrepreneurial firm with no set procedures may
  have trouble cooperating with a big, bureaucratic multinational
  corporation. Organizational fit is hard to achieve when it comes to
  integrating the local joint venture into the parent company’s network
  of subsidiaries.

Staffing joint ventures

Joint ventures require managers with political and cultural skills as well
as technical competencies. Foreign managers unprepared for cultural
complexity will not handle critical situations properly and will jeopardize
their parent company’s ability to learn. The most important task of
managers assigned to joint ventures, particularly when the strategic
intent is to extract knowledge from the local environment, is to
synthesize and transmit learning experiences back to each relevant
department in their parent company. It would be a mistake to assign
managers lacking clout or prestige to a foreign joint venture; the local
partner may interpret this as a lack of commitment to the partnership.
The worst attitude is to consider such postings as a form of exile for
undesirable personnel.
   When recruiting local employees, identity and loyalty are critical. Do
they feel that they belong to their parent company, or to the joint
venture? Most of the time, the local partner will recruit local staff;
foreign partners should carefully monitor hiring to ensure that the new
employees are loyal to the joint venture, not just to the local partner.

Control

Joint ventures are controlled by a board of directors consisting largely
of executives, as well as a few non-executive directors; these are
usually local personalities who can play a useful role as go-betweens
in cases of conflict with the local partners. Western companies tend to
prefer having a majority stake in a joint venture, although there is no
evidence that this allows them to exert real control. When a firm
controls more than 70 per cent of capital, the joint venture can be
considered a ‘quasi-acquisition’, in which case the majority partner is in
command. Below 70 per cent, this is not necessarily the case. Several
studies have failed to demonstrate a significant correlation between
shareholding and control: some companies that are in charge of key
operational functions can be in control even with a minority stake.

Joint venture decay and failure
It is common for joint ventures to experience a rapid deterioration
immediately after start-up as the partners find out more about each
other and make efforts to adapt. After this ‘death valley’ period,
relative stability follows, and can last for three to six years. After that,
mutual interest suddenly drops. The resulting crisis can lead to a split,
and this phenomenon, known as joint venture decay, happens when
both partners feel that they have acquired whatever advantage they
sought from their association. At this moment the impetus for further
collaboration can vanish. If both partners want to avert a divorce, they
must revitalize their association by increasing the range or broadening
the scope of the joint venture’s activities.
   The experience of foreign companies in joint ventures has not
always been a happy one. Empirical evidence on international joint
ventures indicates that at most 40–50 per cent end up producing the
expected return. Most companies become disillusioned because of
unforeseen problems in setting up and operating their partnerships.
There are many causes of failure or difficulty. Below are the most
prevalent:

1    Absence of strategic vision. When a joint venture is launched
    hastily, or for purely defensive or opportunistic reasons, the foreign
    firm often fails to evaluate the intentions and capabilities of the
    local partner. A classic error in an industrial partnership is to
    choose a distributor whose corporate culture is likely to be
    inappropriate to a slow cash flow cycle, and who will probably
    prioritize a few rapid cash flow deals instead of investing for the
    long term.
2    Believing without seeing. The art of appearances can be highly
    refined in some countries and many a foreign investor has been led
    into mistaking elaborate ceremony for a real commitment.
3    Failing to understand the local partner’s strategic logic. In most
    cases, a thorough investigation would reveal the real intent – for
    example, to achieve vertical integration to appropriate technology,
    or simply to enter into an opportunistic deal.
4    Haste in negotiation. The desire to conclude a deal rapidly often
    leads the negotiators to concentrate on financial or legal clauses
    and neglect technological or operational issues. In Asian countries,
    for instance, the contractual stage must be preceded by an overall
    planning session for the project, during which the partners will
    agree on objectives and strategies. This implies a minimum
    investment in understanding the partner’s logic. It is a good idea to
    advance step by step: a licensing contract, for example, can be a
    good way of testing the capacities of the other party before making
    a longer-term commitment.
5    Insufficiently prepared staff and lack of organizational support.
    Unprepared expatriate managers who fail to understand their
    partner’s and employees’ logic can exacerbate tensions, and
    damage the reputation of both the joint venture and the foreign
    parent. Local partners in emerging countries are often highly
    respected professionals, and when they suffer what they see as
  inappropriate treatment at the hands of unsophisticated foreign
  staff, they quickly become disillusioned. Besides, the joint venture
  is often poorly served by headquarters (delays in technical
  assistance, delivery of poorly adapted products, exorbitant transfer
  pricing, exaggerated administrative rules or constraints that ignore
  local conditions).
6 ‘Control’ mindset on the part of executives who have difficulty
  shedding the hierarchical model of management inherited from
  vertically integrated business activities. Partnership requires the
  use of a selection of skills and mindsets on the part of the manager
  involved, giving them the capacity to work in a network.35
7 Difficulty in building trust between organizations from different
  cultures: mistrust is probably the leading single factor that explains
  partnership failure.36 Building trust requires competencies that are
  not necessarily taught in engineering and business schools; it
  requires the mastery of techniques belonging to the social sciences
  such as ‘negotiation analysis’, the art of ‘signalling’ and the practice
  of ‘credible commitment’.

These causes of failure are often interrelated, contributing to a vicious
circle of misunderstanding which can degenerate into open conflict and
end in frustration, loss of market share and sometimes legal action.
Studies on joint ventures have shown that good cultural and strategic
fit, leading to trust between partners, are the crucial factors for
success. Foreign enterprises that seriously consider setting up through
joint ventures should devote enough resources and effort to carefully
preparing and monitoring the selection of a partner and management
of the venture as well as management of the continuous flow of
communication with their local partners.


EXAMPLE 8.2 An ongoing global alliance: the Renault–
Nissan alliance
With the globalization and consolidation of the automotive industry, the
only means of ensuring long-term sustainability is by forming a large
group to leverage market power. For Renault, a European player,
alliance was essential for long-term sustainable growth and expansion.
Finding a partner in Asia was therefore a critical mission for Renault.
For Nissan, which was a financially troubled company in the late
1990s, finding a partner was the only means of survival in the
increasingly competitive global auto industry. In 1998, Nissan’s debts
were estimated at $21 billion, or 2.5 times its equity.
   After a period of fact-finding and a joint evaluation of potential
synergies, on 27 March 1999 Mr Louis Schweitzer, CEO of Renault,
and Mr Yoshikazu Hanawa, CEO of Nissan Motor Co., announced that
they had signed an agreement for a total partnership ‘which will create
the fourth [largest] automobile manufacturer in the world, while
providing growth and profitability to the two partners’.
   The agreement was as follows:

•  Renault was to invest 605 billion yen ($5.1 billion) to acquire 36.8
  per cent of the shares of Nissan Motor Co. with an option to acquire
  an additional 8 per cent in the future.
•   Nissan would have the possibility of becoming a shareholder of
  Renault.
• An executive from Renault would become the new COO of Nissan
  and join its board of directors.
• The CEO of Nissan Motor Co. was offered a place on the Renault
  board of directors.

The Renault team appointed to Nissan initiated the Nissan Revival
Plan. They made three commitments:

    —  Return to profitability by the financial year (FY) 2000
    —  Achieve consolidated operating profit of 4.5 per cent of sales
      by FY2002
    — Reduce net debt from 1.4 trillion yen to less than 700 billion yen
      by FY2002.
It was also promised that, should any of these commitments not be
achieved, the executive committee would resign.
   A Global Alliance Committee (GAC) was created as the governing
body of the alliance to promote joint strategy and synergies between
the two companies. Cross-company teams (CCTs) and cross-
functional teams (CFTs) were created to organize synergies (see
Figure 8.26).




Figure 8.25 Organization of the cross-company teams and global alliance committee in the
Renault–Nissan Alliance

  The CFTs and CCTs generated more than 2,000 new ideas (see
Figure 8.26).
Figure 8.26 The Nissan Revival Plan and the cross-functional teams
Source: Adapted with permission from Nissan Motor Facts File, 2000, http://www.nissan-
global.com/GCC/Japan/FACTFILE/ff00e.pdf (accessed 2001).

  A year and a half later, in 2000, Nissan returned to profitability and
the Nissan Revival Plan objectives were fully achieved by 2001, one
year ahead of schedule. Since then the alliance has evolved into the
organizational structure shown in Figure 8.27.
Figure 8.27 New organization of the Renault–Nissan Alliance
Source: Reproduced with permission from Renault: https://group.renault.com/en/our-
company/a-group-an-alliance-and-partnerships/our-alliance-with-nissan/ (accessed 2001).

  In 2010, the global sales amounted to 6.3 million vehicles and
represented 9 per cent of the worldwide market. While the two
companies are still operating independently, their strategic orientation
and the organization of synergies is supervised by a joint management
company, Renault–Nissan BV (RNBV).
  The main synergies are:

•   Renault–Nissan Purchasing Organization (RNPO) that sources 7
  per cent of the Alliance’s 2006 worldwide purchases
• Common platforms are being developed
• Cross-manufacturing operation
• Common distribution in Europe
Figure 8.28 Renault’s alliances and global acquisition network

•   Common information systems
•   Exchange of best practices, especially in the manufacturing sector
•   Joint development in hybrid and fuel-efficient vehicles.

By 2016 Renault had engaged in a network of alliances and
acquisitions producing around 8.5 million cars (Figure 8.28). Also in
2016 it was announced that discussions were under way with
Mitsubishi about joining the alliance. That would bring the total volume
to around 10 million cars per year. The alliance faced a crisis in 2019
when the Renault-appointed COO was accused of fiscal under-
reporting. He was replaced but the alliance continued even when in
2020 the Covid-19 pandemic plunged the automobile sector into crisis.
MINI-CASE 8.2

General Motors’ global alliances: a Sisyphean task

General Motors (GM) is a global US car company which
produced 9.8 million vehicles in 2015, sold in 125 countries, split
between ten brands: Chevrolet, Buick, GMC, Cadillac, Opel,
Vauxhall, Holden, Baojun, Wuling and Jiefang. Since the early
1980s GM has built its global strategy on a series of wholly
owned overseas investments as well as international strategic
alliances. One GM chief executive called the policy of alliances ‘a
faster and more capital-efficient way to grow’. Over the years
many partnerships have been created and some terminated.
Some of them were local joint ventures established with a view to
assembling cars. Some others were tie-ins with component
manufacturers and finally some others were global strategic
alliances, mainly in Europe and Asia. The following text describes
their most well-known strategic partnerships.

Europe

Italy: GM Fiat

In 2000 GM took a stake of 20 per cent in the Italian company
Fiat Auto for which Fiat Auto would receive 5.6 per cent of GM
capital. GM also had an option between 2005 and 2010 to buy
the remaining 80 per cent of Fiat. The objective of the alliance
was to create synergies in component manufacturing, platform
exchanges, joint purchasing and sales in Europe and Latin
America. Poor performances at Fiat and GM led GM to decline to
exercise the option, and led to the dissolution of the alliance. In
2014 Fiat acquired the American automobile manufacturer
Chrysler and the merged group was renamed Fiat Chrysler. Fiat
Chrysler attempted to recreate an alliance with GM in 2015 but
this attempt failed.
France: GM Peugeot

In 2012 GM and PSA Peugeot of France announced the creation
of a strategic alliance with a stake of 7 per cent in the capital of
PSA. The alliance concerned the sharing of vehicle platforms,
components and modules; and the creation of a global purchasing
joint venture for the sourcing of commodities, components and
other items. However, in 2013 GM sold its share in the company
although it maintained its desire to collaborate with PSA.

ASIA

Japan: GM Toyota

The New United Motor Manufacturing Incorporated (NUMMI)
alliance was created in 1983 as a 50/50 joint venture between
General Motors and Toyota in order to manufacture a compact
car in Fremont, California. GM’s main motive for participating in
this alliance was to benefit from Toyota’s know-how and expertise
in small cars, and learn about Toyota’s highly productive lean
manufacturing system. Toyota’s motivations were to get around
potential US protectionist policies as well as to learn about the
management of the highly syndicated American automobile
workers. The joint venture continued until it was terminated in
2010 in light of GM’s financial difficulties, and the Fremont plant
was closed.

GM Fanuc

In 1982 GM created a joint venture with the Japanese robotics
company Fanuc with a view to producing industrial robots for the
automotive industry. This type of investment was considered as
non-core by GM and the venture was terminated in 1992.

GM Suzuki
In 1981 GM took 5.3 per cent of the capital of the car maker
Suzuki. They jointly developed a small car that was sold both in
the USA and Japan. In 1986 they created a 50/50 joint venture
named CAMI, to jointly build a plant in Canada to assemble some
Suzuki models. In 2000 GM increased its share of Suzuki to 20
per cent, then sold it back to Suzuki in 2008. In 2010 Suzuki
stopped the joint development of a hybrid car with GM and in
2012 sold its share in CAMI to GM. It left the US market the
same year, and went on to develop a strategic partnership with
Volkswagen in 2016.

GM Isuzu

In 1971 GM acquired a 34 per cent share of Isuzu, a small
Japanese car maker. GM’s aim was to work with and support
Isuzu in developing and marketing small cars for the GM network.
The management was completely in the hands of Isuzu
managers. Over the years the alliance took many forms of
collaboration. In 1999 GM increased its share to 49 per cent but
in 2002 due to GM’s financial difficulties Isuzu repurchased 37 per
cent of the shares owned by GM and the alliance was put on
hold. The collaboration was reactivated in 2014 with a proposed
alliance for the development of mid-sized trucks but in 2016 Isuzu
and GM announced the end of their collaboration in this area.

South Korea

GM Daewoo

In 1972 GM acquired 50 per cent of the shares of a Korean car
maker and in 1978 that Korean partner was bought by Daewoo, a
Korean conglomerate. In 1982 the management of the joint
venture was handed to Daewoo and the active participation of
GM was minimized. Following the Asian financial crisis of 1996
Daewoo sold its shares to GM. The company is now a wholly
owned GM subsidiary, under the new name of GM Korea.
China

In China GM has eleven joint ventures and two wholly owned
subsidiaries. The major joint ventures are with the Shanghai
Automobile Industrial Corporation (SAIC) and First Automotive
Work (FAW).
   The SAIC-GM joint venture, launched in 1997, has four major
manufacturing bases – Jinqiao in Shanghai, Dong Yue in Yantai,
Norsom in Shenyang and Wuhan – with eight vehicle plants and
four powertrain plants. SAIC-GM offers more than twenty product
lines under the Buick, Chevrolet and Cadillac brands.
   The 50/50 joint venture between GM China and China FAW,
launched on 30 August 2009, is based in Changchun and is
focused on the production and sale of light-duty trucks and vans.
It also engages in R&D, exports and after-sales support. The joint
venture has facilities in Changchun, Harbin in Heilongjiang and
Qujing in Yunnan. Its products include luxury vehicles, economy
and premium sedans, MPVs and SUVs, and hybrid and electric
vehicles.

Questions:

1  Why in your opinion were some of those partnerships
  terminated?
2 Do you think that GM has benefited from those?

Sources: This text is the authors’ own, derived from internet-based research. Some data
are drawn from Harvard Business Review case no. 9-388-094, ‘General Motors’ Asian
Alliances’ and from INSEAD case 305-300-1, ‘GM Alliances fifteen years later’.


Summary and key points
1    There are three motives for cross-border mergers and
    acquisitions:
    a Market reach
     b   Consolidation
     c   Competencies acquisition
2  Due diligence and valuation are among the main handicaps
  to global acquisitions, particularly in emerging markets
3 Three main methods are used for valuations:
     a   Asset-based
     b   Market-based
     c   Cash-flow-based
4     The integration phase is considered to be the most important
     source of success or failure in M&As.
    The integration process consists of:
     a The integration plan
     b   Transition management
     c   Strategic consolidation
5    There are three integration models:
     a   Preservation
     b   Absorption
     c   Symbiotic
6    There are eight main issues for successful integration:
     a   leadership
     b   clear sense of purpose
     c   concrete operational results
     d   mutual understanding
     e   showing respect to acquired company’s personnel
     f   measurement tools
     g   winning spiral
     h   credibility
7    An alliance:
    a   is the sharing of capabilities between two or several firms
    b     with a view to enhancing their competitive advantages
        and/or creating new business
    c   without losing their respective strategic autonomy
8  A global alliance aims at developing a global market presence
  or enhancing global competitiveness A local alliance or local
  joint venture aims at facilitating market entry or access to
  resources and is driven by three forces:
      • Administrative requirements
      • Capabilities
      • Risk hedging
9 There are three broad types of global strategic alliance:
    a   Market reach alliance
    b    Global leverage alliance
    c   Learning alliance
10 There are four major steps in the analysis of strategic
  alliances, mergers and acquisitions:
   a    Understanding the strategic context and spelling out the
      strategic value of an alliance or an acquisition or merger
   b Analysis of partner(s) or targets
    c   Negotiation and design
    d    Implementation
11 The value potential of an alliance is calculated on the basis of
   the potential benefits it brings to the alliance partners: the
   revenues and cost benefits generated by the alliances
12 Partner analysis consists of four assessments:
    a   Strategic fit
    b    Capabilities fit
    c   Cultural fit
    d    Organizational fit
13 There are two major types of alliance design: broker or
   operator
14 There are two critical phases of implementation of alliances:
   integration and learning
15 There are three types of global multilateral alliance: alliance
   networks, alliance portfolios, alliance webs
16 An industrial ecosystem is group of interacting firms that
   depend on each other’s activities
17 In joint ventures for market entry there are several types of
   partner: complementing partners, investors, diversifiers,
   political partners
18 Failures/problems: there are five main reasons why joint
   ventures fail:
    a Absence of strategic vision
    b    ‘Believing without seeing’ (failure to carry out diligent
      research)
    c Failure to understand local partner’s strategic logic
    d    Haste in negotiation
    e      Insufficiently prepared staff or lack of organizational
        support

Learning assignments
1  The chapter describes six examples of cross-border mergers:
  can you identify the source of long-term value creation in each
  case?
2 What are the problems in conducting due diligence in a global
  context?
3 What determines the bargaining range of a negotiation?
4    What are the critical issues in the post-acquisition transition
    phase?
5  In what circumstances is the symbiotic mode of integration
  appropriate?
6 What are the most frequent sources of failure in M&As?
7  The text distinguishes between market reach, global leverage
  and learning alliances. In which category would you place the
  alliance in vaccines between Pfizer (USA) and BioNtech
  (Germany)? What do such partners look for?
8 What are the sources of value creation in an alliance?
9  What are the criteria to be assessed in order to determine
  the strategic fit between partners?
10 What is an extractive agenda in an alliance?
11 What distinguishes an ecosystem from a multilateral alliance?
12 When looking at Figure 8.24 can you explain why in 2021 the
  main electric vehicle companies were obliged to reduce their
  production?
13 What impact may cultural differences between partners have
  on global alliances?
14 What are the six domains that need to be negotiated in
  relation to the interface and governance of an alliance?
15 What are the different types of local partner in joint ventures
  for market entry?

Key words
•   Absorption mode of integration
•   Alliance
•   Capabilities fit
•   Constellations
•   Cultural fit
•   ‘Death valley’
•   Due diligence
•   Ecosystem
•   Extractive agenda
•   ‘Fair process’
•   Integration process
•   Interface management
•   Joint venture decay
•   Joint venture for market entry
•   Learning alliances
•   Organizational fit
•   Political partner
•   Post-acquisition process
•   Pre-acquisition process
•   Preservation mode of integration
•   Sharing agenda
•   Stand-alone value
•   Strategic fit
•   Symbiotic mode of integration
•   Synergies value
•   Valuation
•   Venturing agenda

Web resources
Institute for Mergers, Acquisitions and Alliances (IMAA) research,
Thomson Financial:
https://imaa-institute.org
Pitchbook for Mergers and Acquisitions:
https://get.pitchbook.com/mergers-and-acquisitions-data
PwC Global:
https://www.pwc.com
    Thomson Research:
    http://mergers.thomsonib.com/NASApp/DealSearch/MAOverv
    iew.
    htm?ExpressCode=DELOITTEDEALS




    Companion website

    Visit the companion website at bloomsbury.pub/global-strategic-
    management-5e for a multitude of weblinks and resources, self-
    test questions for revision and appendices.


Notes
1   Capron and Mitchell (2012).
2     Institute for Mergers, Acquisitions and Alliances (IMAA) research, Thomson Financial,
   https://imaa-institute.org/.   (Accessed       1     February       2022)     and      PWC
   https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/services/deals/trends.html (Accessed 1 February 2022).
3 A series of studies by consulting firms Mercer, McKinsey and Bain & Co. show a rate of
   unsuc-cessful acquisitions ranging from 50 per cent to 75 per cent. These aggregate figures
   do not differentiate between domestic and international acquisitions.
4 Kitching (1973).
5 Martin (2018).
6 Bleeke et al. (1990).
7     The following literature covers both domestic and cross-border acquisition processes:
   Haspeslagh and Jemison (1991); Von Krogh et al. (1994); Mitchell and Holmes (1996);
   Habeck et al. (2000).
8 Eccles et al. (1999); Hawawini and Viallet (1999).
9 Eccles et al. (1999).
10      Financial theory would argue that markets implicitly use the cash-flow method by
   discounting the flow of future dividends to determine a price: this is the efficient markets
   theory.
11 Lessard (1996).
12 Haspeslagh and Jemison (1991).
13 Davidson and de la Torre (1989).
14 Hyde and Haspeslagh (1994).
15 Smith (2000).
16 Kim and Mauborgne (1997).
17 Gomez-Casseres (1995: ch. 1), emphasis added.
18 Doz and Hamel (1998: 66).
19 Ibid.
20 Kogut (1991: 19–33); Williamson (1999: 117–26).
21 Akadar et al. (1997).
22 Geringer and Hebert (1989: 235–54).
23 Bleeke and Ernst (1991: 127–35).
24 Spekeman and Lynn (2000); Yoshino and Rangan (1995); Greve et al. (2013).
25 Krishna and Gee (1998).
26 See, for instance, Harrigan (1986), and also Dent (1999).
27 This section is largely based on Doz and Hamel (1998: ch. 7).
28 This section is largely based on Doz and Hamel (1998: ch. 8). See also Gomez-Casseres
  (1995).
29 Gomez-Casseres (1995).
30 Jacobides et al. (2018).
31 Williamson and Meyer (2012).
32 Greve, Rowley and Shipilov (2013)
33 Williamson and Meyer ( Op. cit)
34 https://www.conseil-national-industrie.gouv.fr
35 Gomez-Casseres (1995: ch. 9).
36 Ariño et al. (2001).


References and further reading
Adner, R. (2017) ‘Ecosystem as structure: an actionable construct for strategy’, Journal of
  Management, 43 (1), January: 39–58.
Aharens, N. (2013) ‘China competitiveness, myth, reality and lessons for the United States and
  Japan: case study: SAICMotor Corporation’, Centre for Strategic and International Studies.
  https://csis-website-prod.s3.amazonaws.com/s3fs-
  public/legacy_files/files/publication/130215_competitiveness_Huawei_casestudy_Web.pdf
  (accessed 1 February 2022).
Akadar, A., Adil, A., Ernst, D. and Vaish, P. (1997) ‘Emerging market alliances: must they be
  win– lose?’, McKinsey Quarterly, 4: 120–37.
Ariño, A., de La Torre, J. and Ring, P. S. (2001) ‘Relational quality: managing trust in corporate
  alliances’, California Management Review, 44 (1): 109–31.
Ashkenas, R., DeMonaco, L. and Francis, S. C. (1998) ‘Making the deal real: how GE capital
  integrates acquisitions’, Harvard Business Review, 76 (1): 165–78.
Bleeke, J., Isono, J., Ernst, D. and Weinberg, D. (1990) ‘Succeeding at cross-border M&A’,
  McKinsey Quarterly, 3: 46–55.
Bleeke, J. A. and Ernst, D. (1991) ‘The way to win in cross-border alliances’, Harvard Business
  Review, 69 (6): 127–35.
Capron, L. (1999) ‘The long-term performance of horizontal acquisitions’, Strategic
  Management Journal, 20 (11): 987–1018.
Capron, L. and Mitchell, W. (2012) Build, Borrow, or Buy: Solving the Growth Dilemma (Boston,
  MA: Harvard Business Review Press).
Castañer, X. and Oliveira, N. (2020), ’Collaboration, coordination, and cooperation among
  organizations: establishing the distinctive meanings of these terms through a systematic
  literature review’, Journal of Management, 6 (6): 965–1001.
Cirjevskis, A. (2020) ‘Valuing reciprocal synergies in merger and acquisition deals using the real
  option analysis’, Administrative Sciences, 10 (27).
Conseil National de l’Industrie (2020) ‘Remettre les filières au cœur de la politique industrielle
  français’. https://www.conseil-national-industrie.gouv.fr/csf-remettre-filieres-au-coeur-de-la-
  politique-industrielle-francaise (accessed 15 June 2020).
Cunningham, M., under the supervision of R. Angelmar and Y. L. Doz (1994) ‘Alza Ciba Geigy
  advanced drug delivery systems’, INSEAD Case Study 2/94-4243.
Cuypers, I. R. P., Cuypers, Y. and Martin, X. (2017) ‘When the target may know better: effects of
  experience and information asymmetries on value from mergers and acquisitions’, Strategic
  Management Journal, 38 (3): 609–25.
Davidson, W. H. and de La Torre, J. (1989) Managing the Global Corporation: Case Studies in
  Strategy and Management (New York, NY: McGraw-Hill).
Dent, S. M. (1999) Partnering Intelligence: Creating Value for Your Business by Building Smart
  Alliances (Palo Alto, CA: Davies-Black Publishing).
DePamphilis, D. M. (2010) Mergers, Acquisitions and Other Restructuring Activities
  (Cambridge, MA: Academic Press).
Doherty, R., Ferrer, C. and Rinaudo, E. K. (2016) ‘Building the right organization for mergers
  and acquisitions’, McKinsey Quarterly. https://www.mckinsey.com/business-
  functions/strategy-and-corporate-finance/our-insights/building-the-right-organization-for-
  mergers-and-acquisitions (accessed 1 February 2022).
Doz, Y. L. (2019) ‘Governing multilateral alliances’, California Management Review, 61 (3): 93–
  114.
Doz, Y. L. and Hamel, G. (1998) Alliance Advantage (Boston, MA: Harvard Business School
  Press).
Dyer, J. H., Singh, H. and Hesterly, W. S. (2018) ‘The relational view revisited: a dynamic
  perspective on value creation and value capture’, Strategic Management Journal, 39 (12):
  3140–62.
Eccles, R. G., Lanes, K. L. and Wilson, T. C. (1999) ‘Are you paying too much for that
  acquisition?’, Harvard Business Review, 77 (4): 136–46.
Ernst, D. and Halevy, T. (2000) ‘When to think alliance’, McKinsey Quarterly, 4: 47–55.
Ernst, D. and Steinhubl, A. M. J. (1999) ‘Petroleum: after the megamergers’, McKinsey
  Quarterly, 3: 49–57.
Friedheim, C. F. (1999) ‘The battle of the alliances’, Management Review, September: 46–51.
Geringer, J. M. and Hebert, L. (1989) ‘Control and performance of international joint ventures’,
  Journal of International Business Studies, Summer: 235–54.
Ghemawat, P. and Ghadar, F. (2000) ‘The dubious logic of global megamergers’, Harvard
  Business Review, 78 (4): 64–72.
Ghoshal, S. and Haspeslagh, P. (1991) ‘Electrolux: the acquisition and integration of Zanussi’,
  INSEAD Case Study 09/90-123.
Ghosn, C. (2002) ‘Saving the business without losing the company’, Harvard Business Review,
  80 (1): 37–44.
Goedhart, M., Koller, T. and Wessels, D. (2017) ‘The six types of successful acquisitions’,
  McKinsey Quarterly. https://www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/strategy-and-corporate-
  finance/our-insights/the-six-types-of-successful-acquisitions (accessed 1 February 2022).
Gomez-Casseres, B. (1995) The Alliance Revolution: An Entrepreneurial Approach to
  Globalization (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press).
Greve, H. R., Rowley, T. and Shipilov, A. (2013) Network Advantage: How to Unlock Value from
  your Alliances and Partnerships (Chichester: John Wiley).
Habeck, M., Kröger, F. and Träm, M. (2000) After the Merger: Seven Rules for Successful Post
  Merger Integration (Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Financial Times/ Prentice-Hall).
Hamel, G., Prahalad, C. K. and Doz, Y. L. (1989) ‘Collaborate with your competitors, and win’,
  Harvard Business Review, 67 (1): 133–9.
Harrigan, K. (1986) Managing for Joint Venture Success (Lanham, MD: Lexington Books).
Haspeslagh, P. and Jemison, W. (1991) Managing Acquisitions: Creating Value Through
   Corporate Renewal (New York, NY: Free Press).
Hawawini, G. and Viallet, C. (1999) Finance for Executives (Cincinnati, OH: South-Western
   Publishing), ch. 12, 379–428.
Hyde, D. and Haspeslagh, P. (1994) ‘The making of the simply better healthcare company:
   SmithKline and Beecham: the simply better way’, INSEAD Case Study 03/95-4449.
Inkpen, A. C. (1998) ‘Learning and knowledge acquisition through strategic alliances’, The
   Academy of Management Executive, November: 69–80.
Inkpen, A. and Ross, J. (2001) ‘Why do some strategic alliances persist beyond their useful
   life?’, California Management Review, 44 (1): 132–54.
Jacobides, M. G., Cennamo, C. and Gawer, A. (2018) ‘Towards a theory of ecosystems’,
   Strategic Management Journal, 39: 2255–76.
Kaetzler, B., Kordestani, K., O’Loughlin, E. and Van Ostende, M. (2019) ‘Managing and
   supporting employees through cultural change in mergers’, McKinsey Quarterly.
   https://www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/organization/our-insights/managing-and-
   supporting-employees-through-cultural-change-in-mergers (accessed 1 February 2022).
Khou, J. and Spar, D. (1994) ‘SONY Corporation and Columbia Pictures’, Harvard Business
   School Case 9/795/025.
Kim, C. and Mauborgne, R. (1997) ‘Fair process: managing in the knowledge economy’,
   Harvard Business Review, 75 (4): 65–75.
Kitching, J. (1973) ‘Acquisitions in Europe’, Business International, Research Report 73–3,
   Geneva.
Klincewicz, K. (2005) Strategic Alliances in the High-tech Industry (Berlin: Logos Verlag).
   http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?-doi=10.1.1.137.215&rep=rep1&type=pdf
   (accessed 12 June 2017).
Kogut, B. (1991) ‘Joint ventures and the option to expand and acquire’, Management Science,
   137 (1): 19–33.
Krishna, L. N. and Gee, F. (1998) ‘General Electric and SNECMA’, INSEAD Case Study 11/ 98-
   3450.
Lasserre, P. (1984) ‘Selecting a foreign partner for technology transfer’, Long Range Planning,
   17: 43–9.
Lessard, D. (1996) ‘Incorporating country risks in the valuation of offshore projects’, Journal of
   Applied Corporate Finance, 9 (3): 52–63.
Li, C. and Reuer, J. (2021), ‘The impact of corruption on market reactions to international
   strategic alliances’, Journal of International Business Studies: 1–16.
Martin, R. (2016) ‘The One Thing You Need to Get Right’, Harvard Business Review, June: 42–
   8. https://hbr.org/2016/06/ma-the-one-thing-you-need-to-get-right (accessed 1 February
   2022).
McKinsey Collection (2021), ‘The future of M&A and post pandemic business priorities’.
   https://www.mckinsey.com/featured-insights/collections/the-future-of-ma-and-postpandemic-
   business-priorities (accessed 1 February 2022).
Mitchell, D. and Holmes, G. (1996) Making Acquisitions Work: Learning from Companies’
   Successes and Failures (London: Economic Intelligence Unit).
Moore, J. F. (1993) ‘Predators and prey, a new ecol-ogy of competition’, Harvard Business
   Review, May–June.
J. P. Morgan, M&A Global outlook, JP Morgan Insights 2016,
   https://www.jpmorgan.com/global/insights/maglobaloutlook (accessed 19 June 2017).
Oxley, J. (2019) Governance of International Strategic Alliances (RLE International Business)
   Technology and Transaction Costs (London: Routledge).
Probert, J. and De Meyer, A. (1998) ‘Francolor Pigments: a Toyo Ink acquisition’, INSEAD Case
   Study 05/ 98-4756.
Purshe, W. (1996) ‘Pharmaceuticals: the consolidation is not over’, McKinsey Quarterly, 2:
  110–19.
PwC Global (2020) ‘Global M&A industry trends’.
  https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/services/deals/trends.html (accessed 1 February 2022).
Rudnicki, J. and Thorpe, R. (2017) ‘The artful synergist or how to get more value from mergers
  and acquisitions’, McKinsey Quarterly. https://www.mckinsey.com/business-
  functions/strategy-and-corporate-finance/our-insights/the-artful-synergist-or-how-to-get-
  more-value-from-mergers-and-acquisitions (accessed 1 February 2022).
Sarala, M., Vaara, E. and Junni, P. (2019) ‘Beyond merger syndrome and cultural differences:
  new avenues for research on the “human side” of global mergers and acquisitions (M&As)’,
  Journal of World Business, 54: 307–21.
Shipilov, A. (2021) ‘Don’t confuse platforms with ecosystems’, INSEAD knowledge.
  https://knowledge.insead.edu/blog/insead-blog/dont-confuse-platforms-with-ecosystems-
  15801 (accessed 1 February 2022).
Shipilov, A. and Gawer, A. (2020) ‘Integrating research on interorganizational networks and
  ecosystems’, Academy of Management Annals, 14 (1): 92–121.
  https://doi.org/10.5465/annals.2018.0121 (accessed 1 February 2022).
Smith, K. (2000) ‘A brand new culture for the merged firm’, Mergers & Acquisitions, June: 45–
  50.
Spekeman, R. E. and Lynn, I. (2000) Alliance Competence: Maximizing the Value of Your
  Partnerships (New York, NY: John Wiley).
Tao, Z. (2004) Anheuser-Busch versus SABMiller: Bidding War in China’s Beer Industry, Asia
  Case Research Centre and Fudan University, Case HKU411.
Viscio, A., Harbison, J., Asin, A. and Vitaro, R. (1999) ‘Post-merger integration: what makes
  mergers work?’, Strategy+Business, fourth quarter, 17: 26–33. http://www.strategy-
  business.com(accessed 19 June 2017).
Von Krogh, G., Sinatra, A. and Singh, H. (eds) (1994) The Management of Corporate
  Acquisitions: International Perspectives (London: Macmillan).
Williamson, P. (1999) ‘Strategy as options for the future’, Sloan Management Review, Spring:
  117–26.
Williamson, P. and De Meyer, A. (2012) ‘Ecosystem advantage: how to successfully harness
  the power of partners’, California Management Review, 55 (1), Fall.
Yoshino, M. Y. and Rangan, U. (1995) Strategic Alliances: An Entrepreneurial Approach to
  Globalization (Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press).
Zulkarnain, Z., Kinnumen, T., Leviagängas, P. and Kess, P. (2014) The Electrical Electric
  Ecosystem Model – Construct, Analysis and Identification of Key Challenges, Technical
  Research Centre of Finland, Finland. http://www.fm-kp.si/zalozba/ISSN/1581-6311/12_253-
  277.pdf (accessed 1 February 2022).


Journals
Academy of Management Journal: https://aom.org/research/journals/journal
Advances in Mergers and Acquisitions: https://w w w.e m e r a l d .c o m / i n s i g h t / p u b l i c
a t i o n / issn/1479-361X
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/17456622
Journal of Financial Economics:
https://www.journals.elsevier.com/
journal-of-financial-economics
Journal of Management: https://journals.sagepub.com/home/jom
Part III

Managing globally

Chapter 9 Global marketing | This chapter starts by discussing the
theory of customer convergence and then analyses the practical
approach to global marketing as it affects the various elements of the
marketing mix: branding, pricing, global account management, global
solution selling and global distribution.

Chapter 10 Global operations and digital networks | Chapter 10 deals
first with the classic issues of the localization of operational facilities:
the role and location of manufacturing plants in a global production
network, global procurement and the management of the supply
chain. It then describes the management of international infrastructure
projects. In the final section it discusses at length the role of the
internet in the globalization of operations and how digital networks
impact the way strategies are formulated and implemented.

Chapter 11 Global innovation | Chapter 11 deals with the
management of research and development (R&D) in global
companies as well as knowledge management, transfer of best
practices, global open innovation and the issues of technology
transfer and protection of intellectual property rights (IPR).

Chapter 12 Global financial management | Chapter 12 addresses
some of the contemporary issues that global corporations face in
managing their financial resources. The first section deals with the
risks associated with foreign exchange fluctuations and the hedging
techniques used to cover those risks. The second part looks at
project financing. The third part discusses the sources of global
financing – both equity and debt. Finally cryptocurrencies and trade
financing are described.

Chapter 13 Global human resource management | Chapter 13
addresses the practical managerial aspects of dealing with human
resources in global firms. Besides the classic problems of
expatriation, it looks at the means of developing local talent in the
various countries in which the firms operate and creating a truly global
organizational culture. In the final section, it discusses the challenges
and opportunities of working from anywhere (WFA).

Chapter 14 Designing a global organization | Chapter 14 describes
the advantages and disadvantages of the various forms of global
organizational designs, from pure geographical to global and matrix
models. It ends by presenting the transnational organizational culture
that is considered necessary to support the structure, processes and
system of the global organization. It ends by looking at key recent
trends in the management of global companies.
Chapter 9

Global marketing




  At the end of the chapter you will be able to:

  •   Understand customer behaviour; its divergence and convergence across countries
  •   Understand differences in segmentation
  •   Design a product policy toward standardization or adaptation
  •   Decide whether the company will push global or local brands
  •   Decide whether the company should have a global pricing policy
  •   Design an appropriate global distribution system
  •   Develop a global account and global solution selling policy



Introduction
In 1983 Theodore Levitt, in a far-sighted article, predicted the ‘globalization of markets’. His arguments
were based on the convergence of consumer needs and behaviours that would erase national
differences and would lead to the standardization of marketing policies.
   In Chapter 1 we showed that since 1980, globalization had definitely gained ground and that many
companies had designed, launched, promoted, priced and sometimes distributed products and services
globally. Brands such as Coca-Cola, Apple, Mercedes and Windows are known in nearly all cities and
through YouTube, TikTok and Instagram they reach users all over the globe. Newspapers and
magazines such as the Financial Times, the Wall Street Journal and The Economist are distributed
simultaneously all over the world. This chapter discusses the practical implications of globalization for
marketing, as well as its limitations. It starts by examining the validity of the theory of customer
convergence and then looks at the practical approach to global marketing in the various elements of
the marketing mix.

Customer behaviour, convergence and global segmentation
The prime task of any marketing manager is to understand customers’ needs, embodied in customer
value curves. Customer needs are driven by a series of factors, as summarized in Table 9.1.
  It can be seen from Table 9.1 that several of the factors shaping customer needs are linked to
culture and geography. For instance, Schütte (1998) argued that Asian customers have a different
hierarchy of needs and consequently exhibit value curves that differ from Western ones1 (Figure 9.1)
and Parker (2000) showed that bioclimatic conditions change customer preferences.2
Table 9.1 Customer needs and value curves


 Factors shaping customer needs
 Consumer markets                                                  Business-to-business markets

 •    Income                                                       •    Industry type

 •    Psychology                                                   •    Usage
 •    Social habits                                                •    Cost/benefit

 •    Social status                                                •    Technological requirements

 •    Climatic conditions                                          •    Time availability
 •    Time availability
 Typical customer value curve elements
 •    Product/service functionalities (comfort,                    •    Product/service functionalities
     design, appeal, etc.)

 •    Product/service quality                                      •    Product/service performance
 •    Image                                                        •    Reputation

 •    Price                                                        •    Relationships

 •   Availability                                                  •    Price and associated costs
 •    Convenience                                                  •    Associated services

 •   Associated services                                           •    Financing
 •    Financing                                                    •    Network effects




Figure 9.1 Western versus Asian hierarchy of needs
Source: Schütte and Ciarlante (1998). Reproduced with permission from Palgrave Macmillan.
  Beside Levitt, Kenichi Ohmae3 and George Yip4 are defenders of global convergence, arguing that
an increasing percentage of the population, at least in the market-led economies, share the same
tastes and needs for larger quantities of products and services. Ohmae has proposed the term
Californization to describe this convergence.
  There is no conclusive evidence of full convergence for consumer goods except in the case of a few
products or services that are highly publicized (portable computers, mobile phones, luxury goods).
However, in business-to-business (B2B) sectors convergence is gaining ground, since purchasing
motives are essentially technical and economic. Each industry market can be divided into different
broad segments, as illustrated in Figure 9.2.




Figure 9.2 Customer segmentation

  Another consideration, in particular for expanding companies that originate from emerging or
developing markets, is to assess and manage foreign market perception, not only of their brand, but of
the original headquarters country itself.

Product standardization
The standardization of products and services is a function of two main factors. First, customer value
curves: the more similar customer needs are across the world, the more the product can be
standardized. Second, the minimum economic size of production: the higher the volume required, the
more standardization. Figure 9.3 shows four categories of product and the importance to them of those
two factors.
Figure 9.3 Global product standardization types

   The first category, global standardization, corresponds to products or services that target global
customer segments and require a high volume of concentrated production to be cost competitive. This
is the case with chemicals, aircraft, microprocessors and consumer electronics.
   The second category, process standardization, refers to products or services that serve similar
needs but do not require a high volume. Their production is localized, the production process
standardized and, as a result, the final product is also standardized. Cement production is local in
production and factories apply the same processes across the globe for delivering standard products.
   The third category, local adaptation, includes products or services that are fully tailored to local
needs, such as foods or consultancy services.
   The last category, modular standardization, is needed when economies of scale are important, but
customers demand product differentiation. Modularization is achieved by producing standard
components in global production or service centres and differentiating the product at the assembly
stage. This is the case with white goods (refrigerators, washing machines and so on) or IT systems.
   In some cases companies combine different categories. Fast-food restaurants are an example of a
mix of process standardization together with local adaptation. McDonald’s hamburgers for example are
produced the same way everywhere. However, over the years, McDonald’s has adapted its product
offering to cater for national differences (in India, chicken is used rather than beef, rice wraps are used
in China and in the UK bacon rolls are offered), but the processes follow strict global rules.


Global branding5
A brand is global when the product or service it represents is marketed across the world under its
name. Every year various organizations publish a list of the most famous or valuable global brands.
Table 9.2 lists the five brands that topped the leading classifications.
Table 9.2 Top five leading global brands comparison between 2020 and 2000


                              2020                                                       2000
 Amazon, Apple, Google, Microsoft, Facebook                         Coca Cola, Microsoft, IBM, GE, Intel
Sources: https://brandirectory.com/rankings/global/table; https://interbrand.com/best-brands/; https://www.forbes.com/the-worlds-most-
valuable-brands/#fd94efd119c0; https://www.kantar.com/inspiration/brands/what-are-the-most-valuable-global-brands-in-2021;
https://app.flourish.studio/visualisation/1163270/ (all accessed 1 February 2022).

   Global brands may be the name of individual products or services (Pampers, Diet Coke, Playstation)
or the name of the corporation that produces them (Proctor & Gamble, Coca-Cola, Sony). In the latter
case, the brand is the symbol of corporate identity and it is encapsulated in a logo that is present on all
the firm’s documents and associated with all of the company’s individual products or services even if
they have a separate individual trademark. Global branding is a combination of both types: global firms
develop a corporate name that will apply to all subsidiaries in the world and they also market products
under different names. For instance, Intel is the corporate brand and Core is the trademark of a family
of microprocessors; Nestlé is the corporate name and Nescafé or Perrier are the global names of
individual products. The same would apply to Microsoft and Windows, Explorer or Office. It does not
mean that all the products of a global firm will make use of the same name, either corporate or
product. Coca-Cola, Heineken or Electrolux use the corporate name for some of their products (global
products or services) and market other products locally under a local or regional name (Table 9.3).
Companies will try to limit the number of individual product names and market products under a global
name. In 2020 Unilever, one of the oldest multinational corporations, owned over 400 brands in 190
countries.6 Procter and Gamble owned 65 brands in 10 product categories and was present in 180
countries.7
Table 9.3 Examples of corporations using global and local brands


 Global corporate                                                                          Global             Sample of
                                                                                           brand              local/regional brand
                                                                                                              name
 Coca-Cola                                                                                  Coke              •    Del Valle (Latin
                                                                                                                  America)
 Around 500 brands8                                                                         Sprite
                                                                                                              •    Fuzze (India)
                                                                                            Fanta             •    Maaza (India)
                                                                                                              •    Ciel (Latin
                                                                                            Dasani
                                                                                                                  America)
                                                                                            Smartwater        •    Vitamin Water
                                                                                                                  (USA)

 Heineken                                                                                   Heineken          Some local brands:
 300 brands in 190 countries9                                                               Amstel            •    Tiger (Asia
                                                                                                                  Pacific)
                                                                                            Sol
                                                                                                              •    Anchor (Asia
                                                                                            Desperados            Pacific)
                                                                                                              •    Bintang
                                                                                            Affligem
                                                                                                                  (Indonesia)
                                                                                            Strongbow         •    Feyrouz
                                                                                            cider                 (Morocco)
                                                                                                              •    Goldberg
                                                                                                                  (Nigeria)
                                                                                                              •    33 Export
                                                                                                                  (France)
                                                                                                              •    Moretti (Austria)
                                                                                                              •    Kruzovice
                                                                                                                  (Czech Rep.)
                                                                                                              •    Zywieck
                                                                                                                  (Poland)
    Electrolux 8 strategic brands, 3 of which are global More than 30   Electrolux   Regional strategic
    national brands 50 licensing brands                                 Grand        brands:
    (http://www.electroluxgroup.com/annualreports/2015/en/strategic-    Cuisine
                                                                                     •    Frigidaire (North
    development/brand-and-design/ (accessed 22 January 2022))           Molteni
                                                                                         and Latin
                                                                        AEG
                                                                                         America)
                                                                                     •    Zanussi
                                                                                         (Europe)
                                                                                     •    Eureka (North
                                                                                         America)
                                                                                     •    Westinghouse
                                                                                         (Asia Pacific)
                                                                                         Regional or
                                                                                         national brands
                                                                                         (examples):
                                                                                     •    Arthur Martin
                                                                                         (France)
                                                                                     •    Castor (Italy)
                                                                                     •    Chef (Australia)
                                                                                     •    Juno (Germany)

     According to Professor John Quelch (1999), the common features of global brands are that they are:

•     Strong in their home market
•     Consistent in product positioning
•     Present geographically in a balanced way across regions
•     Address similar consumer needs worldwide
•     Easy to pronounce.

As mentioned earlier, many global brands are now dissociated from the corporate name (Nestlé and
Perrier, Unilever and Lipton Tea, Apple and iPhone) and many global names are used in many product
categories (Sony, Samsung).
   For Hankinson and Cowking (1996), global brands can be categorized in a 2 × 2 matrix according to
the degree of consistency in brand positioning (whether they convey the same message to the same
segments across the world) and according to the standardization of the products or services they
represent (see Figure 9.4). Volvo is an example of a brand representing a standardized product with
different country segmentation. Nescafé has the same brand positioning with products adapted to
customer tastes. McDonald’s started initially with a standardized product and the same positioning
across the world but, as already mentioned, has been obliged to adapt products to local conditions.
Figure 9.4 Global brand positioning
Source: Authors’ own figure, adapted with author’s permission from Hankinson and Cowking (1996).

  This classification shows that the meaning of global branding can be quite diverse and obliges
companies to define a ‘global branding’ strategy by which they articulate what they are striving for.

Advantages of global branding
There are three main advantages of global branding: strategic, economic and organizational.
   From a strategic point of view, global branding is likely to reinforce market power thanks to a
concentration of marketing effort on a single name, as well as the ability to benefit from a spillover
effect from country to country. It also saves time in launching new products because, if the product
comes under the umbrella of an already-established global name, it facilitates customer awareness
and benefits from a more efficient promotion roll-out.
   From an economic point of view, global branding brings savings in external communication with
customers (advertising, promotion, direct selling), as well as internal costs because it reduces
inventories, product administration and accounting, as well as training and internal communication
costs.
   Finally, from an organizational point of view, it reinforces corporate identity, and facilitates the
transfer of personnel and best practices across the organization.

Disadvantages of global branding
The detractors of global brands argue that they ignore national differences in terms of culture,
customer behaviour and stages of economic development, and lead to over-standardization and heavy
corporate headquarters centralization, thereby stifling entrepreneurship. There are abundant anecdotes
of so-called global names that have negative or aggressive connotations in certain cultures. The whole
argument usually boils down to opportunity costs, so the company relying on global brand alone only
skims the market and forgoes the main sources of growth that lie untapped in the masses of
customers who are still culturally centred.
  The argument against over-reliance on the global brand has proven to be true on many occasions. In
the case of the beer industry in China, for instance, global marketers have been suffering from relying
too much on their global brand to conquer the second largest (soon to be leading) market in the world.
Foster’s, Asahi and Budweiser accumulated losses for not pushing local brands in the way that South
African Brewery did successfully, by building its presence with local brands such as Snowflake or
Keller.10 In practice, global firms adopt a multiple branding strategy by offering local markets both
global and local brands when there are significant opportunities to do so (as shown by the example of
L’Oréal).



  Examples of global brand failures

  KFC’s slogan ‘finger licking good’ was translated as ‘eat your fingers off’ when they entered the
  Chinese market in the 1980s.

  The American beer company Coors translated its slogan, ‘Turn It Loose’, into Spanish, where it is
  a colloquial term for having diarrhoea.

  Nike had to recall its products when a decoration intended to resemble fire on the back of the
  shoes resembled the Arabic word for Allah.

  Pepsi’s slogan ‘Pepsi Brings You Back to Life’ in China was translated to ‘Pepsi Brings You Back
  from the Grave’.

  HSBC Bank had to rebrand its entire global private banking operations after the US campaign
  expanded internationally in 2009. Its ‘Assume Nothing’ message was translated in many countries
  as ‘Do Nothing’.

  Car manufacturer, Ford, made two translation errors. The first when marketing the Ford Pinto in
  Brazil. Ford had no idea that the term ‘Pinto’ means ‘tiny male genitals’ in Brazilian Portuguese. In
  Belgium, Ford’s message ‘Every car has a high-quality body’ was translated into ‘Every car has a
  high-quality corpse’.
  Source: Authors’ creation based on: https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/17-global-brand-failures-some-hilarious-examples-stefan-
  weynfeldt/; https://www.foxbusiness.com/features/lost-in-translation-9-international-marketing-fails; https://www.inc.com/geoffrey-
  james/the-20-worst-brand-translations-of-all-time.html (accessed 1 February 2022).




EXAMPLE 9.1 Global/local branding – L’Oréal in China

L’Oréal, which defines itself as ‘The Beauty Company’, is present in 150 countries in the world with
sales of $29.8 billion in 2019.11 Its brands fall into two broad categories: luxury products and (mass)
consumer products including cosmetics, skin care, perfume and hair care. L’Oréal has been present in
China since 1997, and it is now their second largest market after the USA. L’Oréal’s brand offerings in
China straddle both the global and local. In the luxury segment its global brands are Lancôme, Giorgio
Armani, YSL, Kiehl’s and Helena Rubeinstein. Local high-end brands are Yue Sai and Shu Urmonea. In
the consumer market the global brands are Maybelline and Garnier, and the local brands are
Hydofresy and Magic. Its market share is estimated in total at 20 per cent. The company has created
an R&D centre in Shanghai for developing and adapting products to fit with Asian consumers’
characteristics.


Building a global brand
Riesenbeck and Freeling (1991) have identified two approaches to building global brands: the waterfall
model and the sprinkler model.
   In the waterfall model the brand is developed in one country at a time, while in the sprinkler model it
is developed simultaneously in all key countries. The sprinkler model is currently favoured by global
marketers, as seen in the launch of new computers (iMac) and software (each new Windows Office
suite). However, one of the main issues that major global companies are facing is the need to
‘globalize’ under a single name a large variety of existing local subsidiaries’ names and acquisitions.
Allianz, the German insurance company, was confronted with multiple subsidiaries’ names after its
acquisitions of the French Assurances Générales de France, the US Fireman’s Fund and the UK’s
Cornhill,12 and had to cope with the difficulties of adopting Allianz as a global corporate brand.



   Brand relevance

   Branding is valuable but its success is difficult to measure. Traditionally it has been limited to
   criteria including sales, recognition and image. The digital revolution has meant that brand
   relevance is more salient than brand recognition, some experts argue.13 Brand loyalty has a
   different meaning in the digital ecosystem with a successful brand being one that comes up
   spontaneously whilst ordering products through digital means, be it searching on Google or using
   devices such as Alexa or Amazon digital assistant. These relevant brands are embedded in
   customers’ lives, therefore, unlike brand recognition, brand relevance cannot be bought with
   marketing budgets. The Brand Relevance Index (BRI) ranks hundreds of the world’s largest
   brands according to how important/meaningful they are to ‘real’ consumers. Brand relevance in the
   index is measured through qualitative research: a list of fifty attributes describing how consumers
   perceive relevant brands was drawn up. It was reduced to sixteen attributes driving brand
   relevance under four pillars: customer obsessed (brands that work tirelessly to entrench
   themselves in consumers’ lifestyles); ruthlessly pragmatic (brands that do whatever it takes to be
   there for their customers); pervasively innovative (brands that are constantly shape-shifting to
   stay ahead of technological changes and consumer trends); distinctively inspired (brands with a
   talismanic, aspirational quality which dovetails with consumers’ dreams).14
      Together, these four pillars comprise what the BRI terms ‘relentless relevance’. The BRI asserts
   that relentlessly relevant brands are best equipped to thrive in an increasingly fast-paced future.
   BRI results can be compared to best global brands rankings which emphasize brand value: brands
   that are relevant to consumers such as Pinterest, Spotify and Netflix score lower on the brand
   value index. This can be explained by the nature of the brands: they are young digital players with
   many loyal users. Similarly there are high-value brands such as Coca-Cola that do not appear in
   the BRI top 50. Brands need to win at both value and relevance to survive, for brands that rank
   highly in either relevance or value might benefit from collaboration with an opposite. Apple is an
   example of one such entity that is high in BRI and Best Global Brands.
   Source: https://knowledge.insead.edu/blog/insead-blog/how-brands-can-stay-relevant-in-the-digital-age-10231



Table 9.4 Top ten relevant brands, 2019
Source: https://www.prophet.com/relevantbrands-2019/ (accessed 1 February 2022).


Advertising
The issue of conveying the brand’s image to the public is related to global branding. These are the
issues facing advertising:

•     Should the company use a single advertising agency for the world or local agencies?
•     Should the advertising content be the same or differentiated?

The trend today for global companies is to deal with a single agency across the world. This trend leads
the industry to consolidate and globalize (Table 9.5). There are four main advantages of working with a
single agency:15

•     Simplicity of relationship
•     Easier to retain control
•     Buying power over global media and global support (brochures, promotional material)
•     Economies of scale in production.
Table 9.5 Major global advertising agencies, 2019


    Company                                         Short profile
    WPP                                             3,000 agencies over the world. Ogilvy, Wundeman
                                                    Thompson, AKQA are part of the group. Revenues in 2019:
    http://www.wpp.com
                                                    £13.2 billion; 107,000 employees
    UK

    Omnicom                                         1,500 agencies over the world. BBDO, DDB and TBW are
                                                    part of the group.
    www.omnicomgroup.com/
                                                    Revenues in 2019: $15.1 billion; 70,000 employees
    USA

    Publicis                             Present in 100 countries. Saatchi & Saatchi, Leo Burnett,
    http://www.publicisgroupe.com/France BBH are part of the group. Revenues in 2019: €9.8 billion;
                                         80,000 employees

    The Interpublic Group of Companies   100 offices in the world. McCANN, MULLEN LOWE, FCB
    (IPG) http://www.interpublic.com/USA are part of the group. Revenues in 2019: $2.9 billion; 52,000
                                         employees
Source: Websites of above-mentioned companies.

  Concerning content, global firms must be careful not to offend local cultures and to adapt their
advertisements while retaining the same message. In 2000, the advertisement of a French perfume in
Europe represented a young naked woman. In the United States the same woman was dressed.
Benetton and Swatch are the ‘avant-garde’ of global advertising, using the same content and message
everywhere, sometimes with unfortunate results.16 In 2018 Dolce & Gabbana launched an advertising
campaign on social media ahead of its fashion show in Shanghai. It depicted a Chinese woman,
adorned in D&G jewellery, using chopsticks to eat pizza, spaghetti and an oversized pastry called
cannoli. Dolce & Gabbana labelled the series ‘Eating with Chopsticks’, and tagged each of the ads with
#DGLovesChina. It caused outrage in China, resulting in the show being cancelled.

Online global advertising
Until 2020, when Covid-19 put a halt on many industries, spending on advertising worldwide had
increased steadily and was expected to return to its growth track starting in 2021, and surpass $630
billion in 2024. American consumer goods corporation Procter & Gamble was the largest advertiser
worldwide in 2018, having spent more than $10 billion on ads. Other big advertisers include South
Korean Samsung, French L’Oréal and Dutch-British Unilever, respectively second, third and fourth in the
ranking.
   Digital advertising spending worldwide amounted to $325 billion in 2019. There was a drop in 2020
due to the coronavirus-related market issues but it was estimated to grow to $389 billion in 2021 with a
year on year growth of 12.2 per cent. Mobile internet advertising was the fastest growing medium in
the global ad market. In 2019, mobile ad spend worldwide amounted to roughly $189 billion and it was
expected to grow further to $247 billion by 2022.17 Digital advertising can take several forms: banner
advertisements, pre-video clips, search engine advertising and pop-ups. Because of its global
accessibility and its data-mining capability, the internet offers opportunities to advertisers to launch
global advertising campaigns with local content (Coca-Cola’s ‘Taste the Feeling’ campaign for Chinese
New Year, Nike’s ‘Just Do it’ slogan with the Brazilian soccer team).18
   Online advertising and social media is a means for small players and start-ups to reach a global
audience quickly with little cost. It also allows these smaller ventures to expand rapidly internationally
adapting their marketing where necessary to local markets without incurring large traditional marketing
budgets (the Mini-cases below are examples of how this has been applied in the beverage and ice
cream markets).

Global pricing
Global pricing consists of setting a consistent pricing policy across borders. The only differences in
prices are due to taxation or regulatory reasons. Basic Swatch watches are sold at a price that varies
little from the equivalent of $65.
    There are three main advantages to global pricing:

•    It avoids arbitrage. When countries are not isolated geographically and when there are no barriers
    to trade, consumers can shop at the lowest-priced place. In the 1980s, French car dealers were
    buying French cars in Belgium, where prices were lower, to resell them. The price differences were
    due in part to differences in taxes (VAT) but also to the policies of the car manufacturers who priced
    differently depending upon the country’s competitive climate. With the development of the EU and the
    arrival of the euro, prices tended to converge.
•    It protects the brand integrity. Customers who discover that the product they buy in one country is
    sold at a discount in another may question the reason why it is so, and may attribute the price
    difference to an overall lower quality.
•       It facilitates the servicing of global customers.

The disadvantages are that global pricing does not account for differences in customer utility curves
and leads to sub-optimization (see Insert 9.1).
  In practice, global pricing can be implemented in one or several of the following cases:

•   When the product or service is targeted at customers who have similar profiles and have the same
  or similar value curves, the so-called ‘global segments’. In the case of consumer goods we find
  luxury goods (Dom Perignon, Louis Vuitton, Gucci etc.), fashion items (Swatch, Benetton, Esprit
  etc.), personal computers and software (iMac, IBM, Microsoft Office etc.). In the case of B2B
  marketing the similarity applies to products or services sold to subsidiaries of multinational
  companies (global accounts)
• When the product or service is sold under a strong ‘global brand’
•       When there are strong possibilities of arbitrage
•  When the company deploys a multi-brand policy of global and local products and wants to clearly
  differentiate the global brand from the rest
• When the product or service has standardized functionalities, qualities and features.


    Insert 9.1 Sub-optimization
    Suppose that for a particular product the customer’s utility curve generates a demand function:

    In country A: volume sold (VA) = 204 − 6 × Price (PA)
    In country B: volume sold (VB) = 160 − 4 × Price (PB)

    The cost function of the product is:
    Total cost (C) = 600 + 10V (10 is the variable cost of the product)
    The total revenue function is:
    Total sales (S) = P × V
    Then the profit is R = S – C = P × V – C

    In the case of country A:
    Profit is RA = –6PA2 + 264PA − 2,640
    Profit is maximized when 264 – 12PA = 0 or PA = 264/12 = 22

    In the case of country B:
    Profit is RB = –4PB2 + 200PB − 2,200
    Profit is maximized when 200 − 8PB = 0 or PB = 200/8 = 25

    It can be seen that profit is maximized when prices are differentiated and not global. The
    maximum profit is 564 when prices are set at 22 in country A and 25 in country B. If you adopt a
    global pricing strategy, the profit will be lower:

    •     If price is 22, profit is 548
    •     If price is 23, profit is 542
    •     If price is 24, profit is 536
    •     If price is 25, profit is 510

    Global account management
    When the customers of a global firm are themselves global, and find they need similar products or
    services across their operations (for instance, computer equipment), it may be economically and
    strategically beneficial for both supplier and customer to coordinate their transactions globally. For
    that reason, in many sectors global firms have created what is known as global account
    management (GAM) to serve their global customers (global accounts).
       The principle of global account management is illustrated in Figure 9.5.




    Figure 9.5 Principle of global account management

      At the firm’s corporate headquarters a central function of global account management is the
    supervision of the activities of the global account managers who reside close to the customer’s
    corporate headquarters. (Global accounts are those customers who generate a significant flow of
    sales.) The global account manager negotiates with the corporate client a global account plan for
    the year, specifying the price and quantity of products or services to be delivered. In each of the
    subsidiaries of the firms a local account manager deals with the customer’s local subsidiary for the
    implementation of the agreed deal.


    Global accounts are primarily used in the following industries:

•      Financial services: catering for the varied financial needs of the subsidiaries of multinational
    companies. Citibank, for instance, created the World Corporate Group in 1974 in order to serve the
    cross-border financial needs of 450 major companies. 19
•     Advertising: developing and implementing campaigns worldwide. Saatchi & Saatchi initiated the
    concept of global supermarkets in the late 1970s.
•    Telecoms equipment manufacturers: catering for the equipment and associated services needs of
    globalizing telecoms operators. Ericsson set up a global account management organization in 1994
    serving thirty clients located in ten home countries, such as AT&T, Vodafone and BT. 20
•     Telecoms services operators: providing seamless communication data and voice services; BT,
    Orange, set up global accounts in the 1990s.
•    Computer equipment manufacturers or software companies: providing IT equipment and services.
    Hewlett-Packard (HP) led the way, followed by IBM for global IT delivery. Cap Gemini, EDS and
    Oracle in the service sectors have set up account management.
•    Accounting firms: PricewaterhouseCoopers, and so on.
•    Industrial equipment: Siemens, Schneider Electric.
•    Aerospace manufacturers: Airbus, Boeing to support airline operations.
   A fictitious example of global account management in banking is illustrated in Figure 9.6. The bank’s
corporate headquarters is in London, but the client is a big chemical firm in Munich. The bank’s Parent
Account Manager (PAM), who is located at the branch closest to the client’s corporate headquarters,
negotiates with the client’s Chief Financial Officer a global financing plan for financial deals or services
in various parts of the world. The Subsidiaries’ Account Managers (SAMs), located in the bank’s
international branches, deliver the services under terms negotiated centrally. In such a system, trade-
off and arbitrage are done centrally. It may well happen that a ‘good discount’ is granted to the
Brazilian investment but, as a counterpart, the bank will get a profitable deal regarding a Hong Kong
syndication.




Figure 9.6 A financial global account management network servicing a leading European manufacturer
Source: Authors’ own figure, based on text in Malnight (1995).

    The four main advantages of global account management are:

•    The ability to provide full and consistent services to customers, reducing the hassle of negotiating
    deal after deal
•    A lower overall cost for the customer, partly owing to volume purchases
•    The ability for customers to optimize their procurement strategy (in the case of banking, their
  financing strategy)
• For the product and service provider, to increase overall sales and optimize profitability.

    In the implementation of a global account management system, three main issues arise:

•     Customer subsidiaries may be reluctant to accept global procurement. Local operations may find
    that it is cheaper or better to source locally.
•    Supplier subsidiaries may be reluctant to abandon potential sources of local income for the benefit
    of the global account if they could have got a better deal by negotiating separately.
•    A complex internal accounting system may be required for reallocating income among subsidiaries.

  Global account systems have proven to be beneficial to companies that have been the first to
implement them in their industries, setting the standards for others. In the sectors mentioned earlier the
question is not whether to implement a GAM, but how to do it properly.21

Global solution selling
Global solution selling is a mirror image of global account management. It consists of mobilizing the
resources and competencies of several subsidiaries across the world in order to offer a valuable
solution to a client located in a particular country. In the example shown in Figure 9.7, the company, a
large power generation corporation headquartered in Europe, has to make an international bid for a
turnkey project in Tianjin, China. The offer has to be complete and requires not only the sale of
equipment but also the training of personnel and the management of the plant for five years under a
Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT) contract. In order to give the best solution at the best price, the
company has to mobilize the expertise of its US, French, German and Australian subsidiaries.




Figure 9.7 Global solution selling: an international bid for a power plant in China

   The lead officer, who is in charge of preparing the bid, is located in Hong Kong; she is also in charge
of negotiating the financing of the deal with a global consortium of banks with branches in Hong Kong.
   This type of global solution selling is frequent in industries such as:

•       Banking: to mount a complex financing package (all major global banks)
•        Consultancy: to offer a complete business solution including strategy, IT, organization and change
        management (Accenture, McKinsey, BCG etc.)
•          Information technology: to offer a complete seamless IT solution (AWS, IBM, Cap Gemini,
        Microsoft, SAP etc.)
•        Telecoms operators: to bid for a UMTS (Universal Mobile Telecommunications System) licence, or
        a complete mobile infrastructure and operational network (all major operators)
•        Engineering: turnkey projects or BOT contracts (ABB, Enron, Alstom, GE, all major international
        engineering firms).

The issues are quite similar to those in global account management. Global solution selling draws on
the resources, experience and expertise of the international business units. What matters is the speed
and the coherence of the solution package, as well as the leadership of the solution-selling team. It
requires the cooperation of local subsidiaries and an appropriate mechanism to divide the revenues
among them. There is a temptation for local business units to charge their normal rates for their
respective contributions; if this happens, the overall proposal will be uncompetitive. Therefore, there
needs to be a central global leader who decides on the overall price/content of the solution. Another
issue is the allocation of resources to global projects when those resources may be more fruitfully
allocated to domestic projects for which the local subsidiary would obtain full credit. Table 9.6
describes the capabilities needed to implement a global solution-selling system.
Table 9.6 Capabilities required for global solution selling


                                                                Capabilities
    •    Ability to understand customers’ problems                          •    Ability to provide consistent services across
    •  Ability to interpret customers’ problems and to     the world
      design solutions                                   •  Ability to identify internal and external
    • Ability to formulate solution package                resources and competencies
    • Ability to cultivate relationships and support     • Ability to mobilize resources
    • Ability to transfer solutions to customers’        • Ability to coordinate the use of resources
      subsidiaries across the world                      • Ability to maintain cost and price at
                                                           competitive levels


Global sales and distribution
Sales and distribution are probably the elements of the marketing mix that are the most difficult to
standardize globally. There are many reasons:

•       Language
•       Social codes in supplier/buyer relationships
•       Negotiation cultures
•       Spatial dispersion of customers
•       Local regulations
•       Existing distribution structures.

However, the desirability of being able to sell and distribute globally, as opposed to the use of localized
sales forces and distribution channels, depends upon the frequency of purchase and the dispersion of
customers (Figure 9.8). The more limited the number of customers for the product or service,
especially if sales are infrequent (for instance selling aircraft to airlines), the less the need for a local
sales force. Salespersons located at corporate or regional headquarters can handle negotiations with
the help of a local agent or representative.




Figure 9.8 Sales and distribution

  At the other extreme, frequent purchases from numerous, widely spread customers call for local
sales forces and distribution, either through subsidiaries or through local or international distribution
companies.

Global marketing positioning
Global marketing can take several forms. For each element of the marketing mix a trade-off has to be
made between a fully fledged standard global approach and a complete local adaptation. The
combination of choices leads to a variety of marketing strategies and policies, as illustrated in Table
9.7. The final choice, as seen in this chapter, is a function of many parameters:
•   Customers’ needs and value curve
•   Customers’ dispersion
•   Frequency of purchase
•   Importance of solution selling and account for globally dispersed customers
•   Economies of scale.
Table 9.7 Various global marketing positions




The ultimate choice will have to be made with regard to the global strategic positioning issues
discussed in Chapter 2.

Fair trade marketing
Fair trade is a form of international trade promoting rules and practices that provide better terms of
trade for small and medium-sized producers from the developing world.22
   According to the World Fair Trade Organization, fair trade enterprises impacted 965,700 livelihoods
globally, with over a million producers located in 76 countries generating $9.8 billion of fair trade sales
in 2018.23 Most of the products are agriculturally derived (coffee, cocoa, cotton ware, spices, wine
etc.)
   Fair trade (or equitable trade) relies on the application of ten principles:24

1    It supports economically disadvantaged producers (family businesses, or cooperatives). It
    recognizes, promotes and protects the cultural identity and traditional skills of small producers as
    reflected in their craft designs, food products and other related services.
2    All relevant information is provided to all its trading partners.
3  It respects contractual fair trading practices and ensures that orders are paid on time and that pre-
  payments are passed on to producers.
4 A fair price is one which provides fair pay to the producers.
5    It ensures that no child- or forced-labour policies are practised.
6    It does not discriminate against employees based on race, caste, national origin, religion, disability,
    gender, sexual orientation, union membership or political affiliation, and respects the right of all
    employees to form and join trade unions of their choice.
7    It provides a safe and healthy working environment for employees and/or members.
8    Firms working directly with small producers develop specific activities to help these producers
    improve their management skills, production capabilities and access to markets – local, regional and
    international.
9    Honest advertising and marketing techniques are always used.
10 Firms which produce fair trade products use raw materials from sustainable sources and minimize
  their environmental impact by using organic or low pesticide use production methods wherever
  possible.

Global marketing and its limits
In this chapter we have looked at the many aspects of the marketing mix from a global viewpoint.
Overall, we have argued that the success of global marketing is contingent upon the characteristics of
the products (technical products tend to be more suited to a global approach despite the differences in
norms and specifications) and of the customers’ value differences. Global marketing has advantages of
economies of scale in product and services development, production, promotion and distribution.
However, global marketing shows its limitations in a variety of cases. A 2015 Harvard Business
Review25 article identified six major mistakes in implementing global marketing:

•    Not addressing the specific realities of different country markets
•    Not paying enough attention to internal data
•    Not adapting the sales and marketing channel
•    Not adapting product offerings
•    Not letting local teams lead the way
•    Not thinking through the global logistics.




    MINI-CASE 9.1

    waterdrop®

    The global beverage industry was expected to reach $1.9 trillion by 2021, based on projected
    growth of 3.0 per cent (CAGR) from 2016 to 2021, with the non-alcoholic segment identified as a
    key driver.26 It is competitive and dominated by a few large international players that own
    hundreds of brands, leverage supply chains and hold critical retail space with significant marketing
    budgets. Profitability requires massive scale, millions of dollars in marketing spend and a strong
    brand to maintain loyalty amidst thousands of players. Barriers are low for entering the industry as
    the production of drinks is relatively easy. Despite the thousands of new drinks flooding the market
    and mass marketing by established players, the non-alcoholic segment provided fertile ground for
    innovative start-ups, where branding is key. Martin Donald Murray created one such business –
    waterdrop® – a small cube made up of natural aromas, superfood extracts and vitamins that is
    placed in water, designed to encourage healthier consumption. Martin built the business on a lean
    budget creating a unique brand that is key for the success of his innovative, sustainable product –
    what he created is an entirely new category that he calls ‘a micro drink’. As it is a cube, it is easily
    sold online which makes it the most sustainable drink on the market as CO2 is drastically reduced
    compared to bottled waters and the use of plastic is reduced by 98 per cent.
       Martin’s initial idea was prompted by the limited drinks available onboard a flight to Singapore in
    2016. The company took three steps crucial to entering or disrupting a competitive market:
    challenging the rules of the game, changing the winning team and understanding customer pain
    points and the importance of the unique selling proposition (USP).
       Rather than producing another water, carbonated soft drink or juice, the waterdrop® concept
    captures health and hydration trends by creating a micro drink using water as its platform.
waterdrop® has shown customer-focus, with choice, convenience and awareness of the consumer
trend towards self-improvement and well-being. From the start the customers were part of the
development process with pop-up shops used for research.
   waterdrop® soft-launched in the B2B sector and began selling to consumers in 2017 with
smaller ‘on-the-go’ cases and customized subscription models – the theory was that people
consume most of their drinks at work and it seemed simple to get something small and innovative
into companies. It would act as a platform to connect with and communicate to consumers,
generating product demand through many touchpoints. The idea was to put boxes into meeting
rooms and canteens where they would spread the buzz. Coming from a corporate setting, Martin
believed that firms would be interested in the health of their employees and could use their clients
and visitors to create awareness – ‘word of mouth’. They also used viral email campaigns using
friends to market the digital drink: The founder explains:
  We did not use traditional marketing tools as they were too expensive and not trackable. The real deal is to make a product that
  creates interest and invest all your money into social where you by far have the highest return on your marketing dollar. We
  created a link called ‘waterdrop is coming’ where you could share with a friend, sign up and get free product. The more friends
  you shared with, the more product you get. We collected thousands of email addresses in no time with this.

   Despite being a ‘digital’ drink, waterdrop® also needed to create buzz offline. As it was a novel
concept for the Austrian market, traditional medi-ums including PR, sampling opportunities and
brick-and-mortar presence were also employed. While the initial communication and POS was
purely online, the need for offline touchpoints and sampling was evident – the wave of early
adopters in Austria was quickly swamped by more hesitant but curious potential consumers.
Through online and offline activations the waterdrop® brand grew.
   The development of community was an important aspect of waterdrop®’s marketing funnel but it
required time, money, effort and a dedicated team. Martin initially considered outsourcing content
development, social media marketing and interaction. Finally it was kept in-house which meant a
shift in how the team spent their time. The marketing director was adamant that it was integral to
developing waterdrop®’s brand identity and organizational culture.
   By 2020 the company had saved up to 30 million plastic bottles, opened 15 waterdrop® stores,
had a staff of 120, 500,000 customers online and were also available in 3,000 retail stores.27 It
was valued at €300 million and had expanded internationally.
Source: This Mini-case is based on the INSEAD case study, Niessing, Baumer and Carrick (2019).




MINI-CASE 9.2

Halo Top – using digital marketing to disrupt the global ice cream giants

Halo Top is an ice cream brand founded in 2011 by former corporate lawyer, Justin Woolverton,
who began making ice cream in his kitchen in Los Angeles, in an attempt to reduce his
carbohydrates and refined sugars intake, without losing the pleas-ure of ice cream consumption.
Through its innovative product and digital marketing, the company soon challenged the well-
established ice cream giants. With slogans such as ‘guilt-free zone’ and ‘no bowl, no regrets’ with
the number of calories displayed in large numbers on the tub, the company focused on digital
channels to generate brand and product awareness. It chose to invest in targeted ads on social
media platforms like Facebook and Instagram rather than traditional media. Justin and his team
also used influencer marketing to reach its target market of millennial, health-conscious individuals.
Initially Justin contacted relatively small and medium-sized fitness influencers asking them to try
the ice cream or offer a discount code to their followers.
   By 2017, Halo Top was the fastest-selling brand in the US and number one in the sale of pints of
ice cream in the country.28 With its success came its imitators, from new brands and well-
established companies like Ben & Jerry’s who launched its ‘Moo-phoria’ range and Unilever with its
Culture Republik, a ‘better for you’ alternative that was lower in calories and contained probiotic
cultures.29
   Justin Woolverton first experimented with freezing Chobani, a thick, high-protein Greek-style
yoghurt, by adding fruit and sugar substitutes. He moved on to making ice cream using stevia, a
leafy shrub from Paraguay that was a sugar substitute. He combined this with a no-calorie sugar
alcohol found in certain fruits, erythritol, milk, cream and air to make the ice cream. The result was
an ice cream that had all the attributes and taste of the premium brands but with less calories. A
473ml tub of Halo Top’s Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough was 360 calories, compared to 1,120 for
the Ben & Jerry’s equivalent.30
   To scale his operation, Woolverton signed a deal with a ‘copacker’ – a manufacturer that
produces packaged foods under contract – a California-based manufacturer. He paid a designer
to create the packaging and logo, and persuaded a local gourmet store to stock the ice cream.
Doug Bouton, another former lawyer, joined Justin and they built the Halo Top brand using targeted
Google search ads, marketing on Facebook and more importantly the photo app Instagram –
avoiding TV advertisements that were beyond their budget. Free samples were given to thousands
of ‘influencers’ including athletes, sports trainers and healthy-living gurus. In 2016, a journalist for
GQ magazine ate nothing but Halo Top for ten days and lost four kgs in weight. This was the
catalyst for the brand and sales soared.
   Following Halo Top’s success imitators and competing products pushed Halo Top to expand
abroad or risk losing the first-to-market advantage that was crucial to its local success. They knew
that the food consumer giants would soon roll out healthier ice creams internationally quicker than
they could. In mid-2017, Matt Fulbrook, a former sales director for Ben & Jerry’s in the UK,
contacted the duo and suggested they expand to the UK. With the help of Fulbrook and his
company Brand of Brothers, Halo Top expanded to Europe in exchange for commission on sales,
securing UK distribution speedily in top supermarkets Tesco, Sainsbury’s, Morrisons and Asda
among others.
   Halo Top needed to tailor its advertising and marketing for the UK audience with a brand voice
that was authentic and genuine. They hired local staff and ad agencies. They produced an ice
cream flavour called Lemon Wedding Cake in homage to Meghan Markle and Prince Harry’s
wedding cake. The company recorded sales of £20.2m, according to IRI, and by 2018 they were
outselling Häagen-Dazs in Tesco. This was followed by expansion into Germany where they
contracted an ice cream manufacturer that could supply continental Europe rather than shipping
over supplies. Within a few years, Halo Top had become a poster child for shaking up the
consumer goods industry. They also sold directly to consumers online, using social media to build
a following and attract attention. The people who bought the ice cream were no longer customers
but fans – social media provided loyal customers that promoted the brand. By keeping the
marketing activities in-house through digital channels they also developed an authentic personality
for the brand of a healthier option to mainstream ice cream brands.
   Its aggressive digital marketing strategy paid off with Twitter followers increasing by 2,233 per
cent and Facebook fans 59,282 per cent from 2018 to 2020.31 It had Facebook and Instagram
pages in different geog-raphies including the US, France, Canada and UK. Following Halo Top’s
success with pints of ice cream available in dairy, non-dairy and Keto-diet friendly versions the
company introduced ice cream pops. By 2020 Halo Top was available in the United States,
Australia, Mexico, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, France, the Netherlands, Germany, South
Korea, Taiwan, Austria, Norway, Bahrain, Denmark and the United Kingdom. It is now ranked
consistently in the top three best-selling brands with Ben & Jerry’s and Häagen-Dazs.32 Notably
Halo Top’s competitors also adopted digital channels to reach their customers. In 2020, Häagen-
Dazs reduced its traditional advertising budget in response to the Covid-19 pandemic and
increased its efforts in digital marketing.33
   By 2020 Halo Top was the brand with the largest market share in the ice cream and frozen
dessert market with a 6.4 per cent share globally according to Euromonitor (2021). Through its
strategy of digital marketing it had topped the consumer giants in just ten years.

Summary and key points
1    Convergence of customer needs:
     a    No conclusive evidence of convergence of all consumer goods but gaining ground in B2B
         sector
     b  Product standardization is appropriate when there are similar customer needs across the
       world and when there is high minimum size of production
     c Local adaptation is appropriate when customer needs are different and the minimum size
       of production is low d Modular standardization applies if customer needs are different and
       minimum size of production is high
     e   Customer value curves describe the various elements of customers’ needs
2    Global branding:
     a      A global brand applies to all products or services across the world, and includes the
         following features:
         •   Strong in home market
         •   Consistent in product positioning
         •   Present geographically in a balanced way across regions
         •   Addresses similar consumer needs worldwide
    Easy to pronounce
     b   Advantages:
    Concentration of marketing effort on a single name reinforces market power
       • Cost savings in marketing mix for advertising, promotion, direct selling
         •   Reinforces corporate identity
     c   Disadvantages:
         •   Ignores national differences and hence affects local growth potential
3    Global advertising:
     a   Advertising is global advertising when a similar message is conveyed across the world
     b   A single agency is commonly used, the advantages are:
         •   Simplicity in relationships
         •   Easy control
         •   Economies of scale in production
       • Buyer power over global media and global support
     c Digital online advertising is increasingly important and favours global advertising
4    Building a global brand
         •   Two approaches to building global brands:
    —    the waterfall model (one country at a time)
    —    the sprinkler model (simultaneously in key countries)
5    Global pricing:
    a    Involves setting consistent pricing policy across borders
    b        Useful:
         •      When product/service is targeted at ‘global segments’ (customers with similar value
              curves)
         •     When product/service is sold under strong ‘global brand’
         •     When there are strong possibilities of arbitrage
         •     When company implements a multi-brand policy of global and local products
         •     When product/service is standardized
    c    Advantages:
         •     Avoids arbitrage (when customers shop in the lowest-priced country)
         •     Protects brand integrity
         •     Facilitates servicing of global customers.
    d   Disadvantages are sub-optimization owing to a lack of consideration for differences in
      customers’ utility curve
6   Global account management:
    a     The organizational process which serves global accounts (customers present in many
        countries and requiring products/services as specified in a central buying agreement)
    b        Advantages:
         •     For the customer:
    —    Low overall cost partly owing to volume purchase
    —    Ability to optimize procurement strategy
         • For the seller:
    —    Increases overall sales and optimizes profitability
    —    Reduces transaction cost (deal negotiation cost) and enhances ability to provide full and
        consistent services to customers
    c    Disadvantages:
         •     Customers’ subsidiaries reluctant to accept global procurement
         •     Suppliers’ subsidiaries reluctant to abandon potential source of local income
         •     Complex internal accounting system required to reallocate income among subsidiaries
7   Global solution selling:
    a    Involves mobilizing resources and competencies of several worldwide subsidiaries to offer
        a valuable solution to a client in a specific country
    b        Key issues:
         •     Speed of solution delivery
         •     Leadership of solution-selling team
         •     Revenue distribution among parties involved
         •     Optimization of resource allocation
8   Global sales and distribution:
    a    Very difficult to standardize:
         •     Languages
         •     Social codes in supplier/buyer relationships
         •     Negotiation cultures
         •     Spatial dispersion of customers
         •     Local regulations
         •     Existing distribution structures
     b       Determinants of need for local sales force are:
         •     Frequency of purchase
         •     Extent of customer dispersion
9    Global marketing positioning:
    Choice of marketing mix depends on:
        • Company’s global strategic positioning
        • Customers’ needs and value curve
         •     Customers’ dispersion
         •     Frequency of purchase
         •     Importance of solution selling and account for globally dispersed customers
         •     Economies of scale
10 Fair trade marketing
     a   Supports economically disadvantaged producers
     b       Mainly in emerging countries
11 Limits of global marketing
         •     Six major mistakes in implementing global marketing:
         •     Not specific about countries
         •     Not paying enough attention to internal data
         •     Not adapting the sales and marketing channel
         •     Not adapting product offering
         •     Not letting local teams lead the way
         •     Not thinking through the global logistics

Learning assignments
1    What are the benefits of global standardization?
2    Can you identify ten ‘global’ products?
3    In Table 9.4 (p. 362), most of the top global brands are from the United States. Why do you
    think this is?
4   Why did Unilever announce that it was reducing the number of its brands from 1,600 to 400?
    What were the risks of doing so?
5    What potential problems will a marketer encounter in having a ‘global’ advertising campaign?
6    What are the benefits of using a single advertising agency?
7    Why can global pricing lead to sub-optimization?
8    What is the difference between global account management and global solution selling?
9    What are the typical problems associated with global account management?


Key words
•    Advertising agency
•    Arbitrage
•     ‘Californization’
•     Convergence
•     Customer value curve
•     Global accounts
•     Global solution selling
•     Hierarchy of needs
•     Marketing positioning
•     Modularization
•     Segmentation
•     Sprinkler model
•     Sub-optimization
•     Waterfall model

Web resources
EMIS (Emerging Market Research):
https://www.emis.com/
Euromonitor:
https://www.marketresearch.com/Euromonitor-International-v746/
Market Line:
https://www.marketline.com
McKinsey Global Institute:
https://www.mckinsey.com/mgi/overview
Statista:
https://www.statista.com
Warc:
https://www.warc.com/Welcome
World Bank Development Indicators:
https://databank.worldbank.org/source/world-development-indicators



     Companion website

     Visit the companion website at bloomsbury.pub/global-strategic-management-5e for a
     multitude of weblinks and resources, self-test questions for revision and appendices.


Notes
1    Schütte (1998).
2    Parker (2000).
3    Ohmae ([1985] 1995).
4    Yip (1994).
5    This section is partly based on Riesenbeck and Freeling (1991) and Quelch (1999).
6    https://www.unilever.com/brands/ (accessed 1 February 2022).
7    https://www.pgcareers.com/ (accessed 1 February 2022).
8    https://www.coca-colacompany.com/ (accessed 1 February 2022).
9    https://www.theheinekencompany.com/ (accessed 1 February 2022).
10   Williamson (1999).
11             https://www.loreal-finance.com/eng/focus/loreal-worldwide          (accessed        1     February       2022).       and
                                                                 https://www.statista.com/statistics/243986/consolidated-sales-of-loreal-
   worldwide/#:~:text=Between%202010%20and%202019%2C%20the,in%20global%20sales%20in%202019 (accessed 1 February
   2022).
12 Tribewalla (1999).
13    https://knowledge.insead.edu/blog/insead-blog/how-brands-can-stay-relevant-in-the-digital-age-10231 (accessed 1 February
   2022).
14 Ibid.
15 Quelch (1999: 11).
16 Pinson and Tribewalla (2001).
17 https://www-statista-com.ezproxy.insead.edu/topics/990/global-advertising-market/ (accessed 1 February 2022).
18 https://alphaefficiency.com/digital-ad-spend/ (accessed 1 February 2022).
19 Malnight (1995).
20 Dragonetti and Noda (1999).
21 David et al. (2001).
22 Doherty et al. (2015).
23 World Trade Organization: https://wfto.com (accessed 6 may 2022).
24 https://wfto-europe.org/the-10-principles-of-fair-trade-2/ (accessed 6 may 2022).
25 Kelly (2015).
26 Monitor (2015).
27 https://en.waterdrop.com/ (accessed 1 February 2022).
28 https://econsultancy.com/how-halo-top-is-challenging-the-ice-cream-market-social-marketing-strategy/ (accessed 1 February
   2022).
29 Ibid.
30 Financial Times (2019) :https://www.ft.com/content/b5ffbe6e-1360-11e9-a168-d45595ad076d (Accessed on 6 May 2022).
31 https://www.referralcandy.com/blog/halo-top-marketing-strategy/ (accessed 6 May 2022).
32 https://www.goodhousekeeping.com/food-products/g34313693/best-sugar-free-ice-cream/ (accessed 6 May 2022).
33 https://www.marketingweek.com/haagen-daz-digital-investment-doubles/ (accessed 6 May 2022).


References and further reading

Books and articles
Aaker, D. A. and Joachimsthaler, E. (1999) ‘The lure of global branding’, Harvard Business Review, 77 (6): 137–44.
Abboud, L. (2019) ‘Halo Top challenges big brands for scoop of ice-cream market’, Financial Times Special Report –
  Entrepreneurship, March 15.
Barth, K., Karch, N. J., McLaughlin, K. and Smith Shi, C. (1996) ‘Global retailing: tempting trouble?’, McKinsey Quarterly, 1: 117–25.
David, A. (2000) ‘Seven rules of international distribution’, Harvard Business Review, 78 (6): 131–7.
David, A., Birkinshaw, J. and Toulan, O. (2001) ‘Can selling be globalized? The pitfalls of global account management’, California
  Management Review, 44 (1): 8–20.
Doherty, B., Smith, A. and Parker, S. (2015) ‘Fair trade market creation and marketing in the global south’, Geoforum, 67: 158–71.
Dragonetti, N. and Noda, T. (1999) ‘Building a customer oriented networked organisation: Ericsson’s global account management
  programme’, INSEAD, Case Study 11, 1999–4857.
Geyer, F. and Niessing, J. (2020) The Definitive Guide to B2B Digital Transformation: How to Drive Uncommon Growth by Prioritizing
  Customers Over Technology (Cambridge, MA: B2BDigitalTransformation.com).
Godin, S. (2018) This is Marketing: You Cant’t be Seen Until you Learn to See (London: Penguin).
  https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/600458/this-is-marketing-by-seth-godin/ (accessed 1 February 2022).
Hankinson, G. and Cowking, P. (1996) The Reality of Global Brands (London: McGraw-Hill).
Katsikeas, C., Leonidou, L. and Zeriti, A. (2019) ‘Revisiting international marketing strategy in a digital era: opportunities, challenges,
  and research directions’, International Marketing Review, 37 (3): 405–24. https://doi.org/10.1108/IMR-02-2019-0080.
Kelly, N. (2015) ‘The most common mistakes companies make with global marketing’, Harvard Business Review, September.
Kelly, N. (2020) ‘Name Your brand with a global audience in mind’, Harvard Business Review, September.
Levitt, T. (1983) ‘The globalization of markets’, Harvard Business Review, 61 (3): 92–101.
Malnight, T. (1995) ‘Citibank: global customer management’, Harvard Business School and Wharton School Case Study 9-395-142.
Narayandas, D., Quelch, J. and Schwartz, G. (2000) ‘Prepare your company for global pricing’, Sloan Management Review, Fall: 61–
  70.
Niessing, J. and El Noshokaty, T. (2018) How Brands Can Stay Relevant in the Digital Age, INSEAD Knowledge.
  https://knowledge.insead.edu/blog/insead-blog/how-brands-can-stay-relevant-in-the-digital-age-10231 (accessed 22 January 2022).
Niessing, J., Carrick, A.M. and Baumer, C. (2019) waterdrop®: Changing the Paradigms of the Beverage Industry with Limited
  Resources and Digital Marketing, INSEAD Case Study 6399. https://publishing.insead.edu/case/waterdrop (accessed 21 January
  2022).
Ohmae, K. ([1985] 1995) Triad Power (New York, NY: Free Press).
Parker, P. (2000) Physioeconomics (Cambridge, MA: MIT Press).
Pinson, C. and Tribewalla, V. (2001) ‘Benetton’, INSEAD Case Study 4520. https://publishing.insead.edu/search?search=benetton
Quelch, J. (1999) ‘Global branding: taking stock’, Business Strategy Review, 10 (1): 1–14.
Riesenbeck, H. and Freeling, A. (1991) ‘How global are global brands?’, McKinsey Quarterly, 4: 3–17.
Schütte, H. (1998) Asian Consumer Behavior (Basingstoke: Macmillan).
Schütte, H. and Ciarlante, D. (1998) Consumer Behaviour in Asia (Paris/London: INSEAD/ Macmillan).
Williamson, P. J. (1999) ‘China’s beer war’, INSEAD Euro Asia Centre Case Study 05/ 98-4755.
World Fair Trade Organization (n.d.) 10 Principles of Fair Trade. http://wfto.com/fair-trade/10-principles-fair-trade (accessed 20 June
  2017).
Yip, G. (1994) Total Global Strategy (Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall).


Journals
International Marketing Review (Quarterly), MCB University, UK: https://www.emeraldgrouppublishing.com/journal/imr
Journal of International Marketing (Quarterly), American Marketing Association, USA: https://journals.sagepub.com/home/jig
Journal of Consumer Research: https://consumerresearcher.com/
Journal of Marketing: https://journals.sagepub.com/home/jmx
Chapter 10

Global operations and digital networks




 At the end of the chapter you will be able to:

 •     Understand the various factors contributing to the location
     decision
 •      Explain the different roles of international factories and
     service centres, and their evolution
 •     Evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of centralized
     versus decentralized purchasing
 •         Understand the role played by the internet in the
     management of global operations
 •    Discuss the functions of a global logistics system
 •      Set out the various phases in international infrastructure
     projects and their management design



Introduction
The internationalization of value chains is a salient and controversial
feature of globalization. This phenomenon, known as offshoring,
creates a global operational network of integrated production and
service centres deployed across the world (Figure 10.1). Global
operational management is concerned with the management of such
a network. At the beginning of the chapter different types of
offshoring will be discussed. Then various issues of managing global
value chains will be discussed. The first issue is to decide where to
set up the operational, productive and logistical facilities such as
factories, services and distribution centres. This kind of decision is
known as the location decision: it requires multiple criteria analysis
taking into account regional resources and risk characteristics as well
as customer proximity. Second, each element of the network has to
be attributed a specific role and the network has to be managed. This
chapter presents different categorizations of global manufacturing
networks. Third, the procurement function, including electronic
purchasing through electronic data interchange (EDI) or through the
internet, is considered, as well as the role of the internet in the
management of global networks. The fourth domain of operational
management is concerned with the managerial issues associated with
the physical flow of goods – otherwise known as logistics. The
chapter continues with the analysis of the managerial issues
associated with the handling of large-scale international infrastructure
projects. Finally the impact of the internet on global management will
be addressed.
Figure 10.1 The global operations network


The globalization of value chains: offshore
production and outsourcing
Since the 1980s, the globalization of markets and competition have
induced companies to internationalize their value chains.
Manufacturing as well as service sites have been set up offshore.1 In
2010 the OECD published an Index of Offshoring Activities in the
manufacturing and service sectors. This index showed that in OECD
countries offshoring had increased from 21 per cent to 26 per cent in
the manufacturing sector during the decade from 1995 to 2005.2 The
study has not been replicated since then. Another source of
information is the various studies from consulting firm Kearney to
produce a reshoring index measuring the reactive movement – that of
the repatriation of activities to the country of origin. Kearney’s seventh
annual edition showed a reversal of a five-year trend, as domestic US
manufacturing in 2019 commanded a significantly greater share
versus the fourteen Asian low-cost countries (LCCs) tracked in the
study, with manufacturing imports from China registering a particularly
sharp decline.3
  Offshoring can take place internally via the setting up of factories
or services in international locations (offshore production) or by the
outsourcing of such activities to external suppliers (offshore
outsourcing). It can be motivated by the desire to take advantage of
a local market (market localization) or by the search for resources
and cost advantages that enhance global competitiveness. These four
forms of offshoring are represented in Figure 10.2.




Figure 10.2 Forms of offshoring

   Although offshoring for markets is accepted politically and socially
in the home countries of the investing firms, the second reason for
offshoring – for global competitiveness – is not. When a company
invests in a country in search of low wage costs and closes a factory
or a service centre in a high-wage country it delocalizes, which
creates a loss of jobs that in turn generates demand for sanctions
and protectionism.
   Over the years a particular offshore centre may see its mission
evolving. For instance, in 1970 Hewlett-Packard chose Singapore to
build a factory to produce components. Four years later the factory
was making a complete product – a handheld calculator. In the
following years more and more products were transferred there, still
designed in the USA, but gradually by the mid-1980s the Singaporean
operation had started to redesign products and introduce new ones.
By the mid-1990s it had developed and produced a wholly new
product: the Deskjet SOS.
   Hewlett-Packard exemplifies the topic of this chapter: in dealing
with the four major decision dimensions of global operations the
issues (as represented in Figure 10.2) are:

•  Location: where to put facilities?
•   Production: what to produce (manufacturing and services) and
  where?
• Sourcing: from whom to buy, what and how?
• Logistics: how to manage the flow of goods and information?

Selecting operational sites
The first type of decision in the management of a global operations
network consists of selecting countries and regions in which to set up
operational facilities. Table 10.1 presents the various criteria usually
utilized to choose a location for facilities such as a plant, a back
office, a distribution facility or a service centre.
Table 10.1 Criteria for facilities location


    COSTS                   LABOUR COSTS      •   Remuneration level
                                              •   Skill level
                                              •   Skill availability
                                              •   Productivity
                                              •   Social regulations
                                              •   Flexibility
                                              •   Unionization
                            OPERATIONAL       •   Raw material costs
                            COSTS             •   Telecommunications
                           •     Energy, water,
                               transport
                           •     Property, rent
                           •     Logistics
                           •     Services
                           •     Financial costs
                           •     Environmental costs
                           •     Expatriate cost of
                               living

            TAXATION       •   Tariffs
                           •   Indirect taxes
                           •   Income taxes

            INCENTIVES     •   Subsidies
                           •   Tax relief

            CUSTOMER       •  Ability to offer fast
            PROXIMITY        delivery
                           • Ability to offer fast
                             servicing
                           • Ability to customize
            SUPPLIER       • Availability of raw
PROXIMITY
            PROXIMITY        materials
                           • Quality of raw
                             materials
                           • Reliability of supplies

            LOGISTICS      •    Import/export
                               facilities
ENVIRONMENT PROFESSIONAL   •  Financial institutions
                           •  Legal and
                             consultancy services
                           • Training services

            INTELLECTUAL   •   Libraries
                                                        •   Information
                                                        •   Universities
                        QUALITY OF LIFE                 •    Government
                                                            regulation
                                                        •    Freedom of
                                                            movement
                                                        •    Climate
                                                        •    Housing
                                                        •    Presence of
                                                            international schools

                        LEARNING FROM                   •  Quality of
                        SUPPLIERS                         international and
                                                          domestic suppliers
                                                        • Supplier innovation
                        LEARNING FROM                   •  Variety of
                        CUSTOMERS                         segmentation
                                                        • Variety of customer
                                                          demands
 LEARNING                                               • Customer
                                                          sophistication
                        LEARNING FROM                   •    Variety of
                        COMPETITORS                         competitors

                        LEARNING FROM                   •    Innovation context
                        INSTITUTIONS                        due to universities,
                                                            technical and design
                                                            centres

Source: Author’s own, based on discussions in Haigh (1990); Ernst & Young (1992); Ferdows
(1997); De Meyer and Vereecke (1994).

  The choice is contingent upon the kind of facilities and their role in
the network. Procurement offices will be located in places where
resources and suppliers are available, while distribution centres will
be located close to dense markets. Rotterdam in Europe, Singapore
and Hong Kong in Asia play major roles as distribution and logistics
centres in their respective regions because of their nodal
geographical position and their world-class infrastructures. Bangalore
or Manila will be chosen in the field of computer software because of
their abundance of skilled and low-cost programmers, while Shenzhen
in China or Batam in Indonesia are locations for labour-intensive
processing.

Global manufacturing networks

Ferdows’ strategic roles model

Based on extensive longitudinal research, Kasra Ferdows (1997)
proposed a model of classification for manufacturing centres in a
global network leading to the definition of various strategic roles. This
classification is based on two main variables:

•    The primary strategic reason for setting up a plant in a particular
    country. Ferdows identifies three main reasons:
             ○   To access low-cost production
             ○   To access skills and know-how
             ○  To access markets.
•   The competencies of the plant, in terms of the various tasks
  that a given site is capable of doing:
            ○   The ability to assume responsibility for production
             ○          The ability to maintain technical processes
                 (maintenance responsibility)
             ○      The ability to purchase locally (sourcing/logistical
                 responsibility)
             ○   The ability to make process improvements
             ○   The ability to develop suppliers
                 ○    The ability to develop processes
                 ○          The ability to make product improvement
                     recommendations
                 ○    The ability to develop products (product development
                     responsibility)
                 The ability to supply global markets
                 ○

             ○    The ability to become a global hub for product and
                process knowledge.
Based on those two main dimensions, Ferdows identifies six types of
global plants in a network:

•    The offshore factory
•    The source factory
•    The server factory
•    The contributor factory
•    The outpost factory
•    The lead factory.

Each of these has a precise role, as defined in Table 10.2.
Table 10.2 Ferdow’s classification of globally set-up factories


    OFFSHORE                   Local production sites manufacturing low cost
    FACTORY                    global products or components designed
                               globally

    SOURCE                     Autonomous local production sites benefiting
    FACTORY                    from large autonomy manufacturing global and
                               local products or components

    SERVER                     Local production site manufacturing products
    FACTORY                    or components designed globally for local or
                               regional markets
    CONTRIBUTOR             Local production site manufacturing products
    FACTORY                 or components designed locally for local or
                            regional markets

    OUTPOST                 Local production site manufacturing products
    FACTORY                 competing with technologically dominant local
                            players in view to learn about the technological
                            environment

    LEAD FACTORY            Global production center having the full design,
                            sourcing capabilities to produce global
                            products

Source: Author’s summary based on Kasra Ferdows, ‘Making the most of foreign factories’
(Ferdows 1997).

   Overall, the combination of the various types of factories
constitutes a global manufacturing network in which all production
centres are to some extent interrelated. The architecture of the
network and the shifting roles of factories evolve according to new
opportunities and competitive pressures. Ferdows advocates the
design of what he calls a ‘robust’ network that evolves without
resorting to drastic measures, such as plant closures or abrupt shifts
of production from one country to another.

De Meyer and Vereecke’s network architecture model

De Meyer and Vereecke (1994) emphasize the role of plants as
information and knowledge creators in addition to the traditional roles
of foreign factories as supply bases. They define four main
categories of plants in a network:

•      Isolated plants: concentrating on the production of products for
     specific geographical markets. These plants do not communicate
  greatly with others. They are installed in import substitution
  countries that require local production for their domestic markets.
• Blueprint plants: receiving a lot of innovation but not creating any.
  They produce goods according to blueprints received from
  elsewhere. Those plants could be located in low-cost countries or
  Export Processing Zones (EPZs).
•   Host plants: network players here are well-established factories
  serving large markets that have developed a high degree of
  competency in state-of-the-art manufacturing but are not at the
  forefront of innovation.
•      Innovator plants: network players here play a central role in
    product and process adaptation and innovation and are a source of
    inspiration for other factories.

Global services networks

The internationalization of services can take many forms, as
represented in Figure 10.3.
Figure 10.3 Different models of internationalization of services
Source: Authors’ own figure, based on Chart 2 in Lindner et al. (2001).

   One of the key distinctions in respect of services, as opposed to
manufacturing, is the relative importance of the front office compared
to back office activities.4
   In front office activities, consumption and production are
concomitant: in a plane the traveller ‘consumes’ the travel at the same
time as it is produced, in a retail store the customer ‘consumes’ (the
act of buying) at the same time as the act of selling is performed. In
back office activities, goods or support to services (software,
insurance policies, bank transfer processing) can be performed
separately from their consumption; goods or services support can be
stockpiled. In global services, back office activities can be classified
in a similar way to manufacturing plants:

•    Offshore centres perform isolated acts of production: data entry
    performed in Guandong for a company headquartered in Europe,
  for instance
•   Source centres produce with a certain degree of autonomy for
  supporting local markets: catering facilities, distribution centres
•      Contributor centres may have a regional role: maintenance
    centres, regional warehousing
•   Dispatch centres
•   Outpost centres: market intelligence
•   Lead centres: design function.

   Front office operations are in immediate contact with the customer
and need to be close to the market. There are two main types of
front office:

•   The physical front office: banking branch, retail store, restaurant,
  repair centre, hotel
•     The remote front office: call centre, reservation office, e-
  commerce centre.

Front office activities, because of their high degree of interaction with
customers, demand particular attention to language, customs and
social codes. Adaptations require the localization of facilities and
personnel. For instance, medical, educational or legal, as well as
home hospitality or consultancy services, will deploy facilities, either
directly or through alliances, in order to perform the interface with
their customers (models 2, 3, 4 in Figure 10.3). Some online services
can be performed with contact only via the internet (e-learning for
instance, model 1).
   By contrast, many back office activities can be centralized in global
or regional centres localized in places selected according to their cost
benefit characteristics. For instance, India has been the centre of
business process outsourcing (BPO) and IT back office functions
(models 5 and 6).

Global sourcing
Global sourcing is the organization of a coordinated approach to the
selection of suppliers located across the world and the procurement
of goods and services for the global supply chain. Global sourcing
can take several forms, depending on the degree of centralization
and integration of the procurement function, as illustrated in Figure
10.4.




Figure 10.4 Different global sourcing designs


The outsourced global procurement model

In this model, the global firm delegates the procurement to an
international buying or purchasing agent who is in charge of the whole
procurement function. Li & Fung, who set up the concept of a ‘virtual
factory’,5 provide a good example of such an agent. The example
below provides a description of Li & Fung’s global sourcing.


EXAMPLE 10.1 Li & Fung’s ‘virtual factory’ concept

Founded in Guangzhou, Li & Fung began as a traditional exporter of
Chinese porcelain. Today, this family-owned group has 42 offices in
20 countries, employing 2,500 employees in Asia, Europe and Africa.
It deals with a network of more than 3,000 manufacturers for textiles,
toys, sporting goods and furniture. Its main customers are major
retail chains in the United States and Europe. The company
participates in the design and engineering of products with its
customers, selects suppliers, deals with quality control, final
assembly and testing as well as logistics issues. A product like a
parka, for instance, will be made of various components
manufactured in different international locations: Korea (the shell),
Taiwan (the lining), Japan (the zip), Hong Kong (the elastic, studs,
toggles and string) and China (the filler and final assembly).

The internal central purchasing model

In this model, a central department with its own offices located in the
major sourcing country centralizes the purchase of key components,
raw materials or products. The purchasing division will act in exactly
the same way as an independent purchasing agent, dealing with the
whole supply chain from requesting quotations, through negotiation,
orders, quality control, reception, expedition, logistics and finally to
payment. Nike, for instance, operates a central ‘virtual’ enterprise
from its headquarters in Oregon. The product is designed centrally
and then sourced from different factories in Korea, Japan, Taiwan,
Indonesia and the United States.

The distributed procurement model

In this model, each production centre in charge of a product or
component takes care of its own procurement, based on centrally
defined product specifications. This model applies particularly when
there is a local content requirement imposed by a country or when a
subsidiary has complete responsibility for a product. It is not unusual
for global companies to encourage their major suppliers to locate
factories near their own plants, a process known as piggybacking.
Electronic sourcing (EDI and e-procurement)

The development of digital IT has enhanced the ability of companies
to source globally. Proprietary software, known as electronic data
interchange (EDI), links corporations to their suppliers, enabling the
exchange of information and the automatic placement and tracking of
orders. The internet, thanks to its connectivity and language
compatibility, has given birth to electronic marketplaces (e-
marketplaces) that complement and to some extent replace
traditional EDI. There are three main types of procurement
marketplaces:

•   Horizontal marketplaces (aggregators) specialize in one category
  of product or service for all types of industry. An example is
  Jaggaer (https://www.jaggaer.com/), a marketplace for scientific
  products     used      mainly    by     pharmaceutical,   chemical,
  biotechnological and educational organizations as well as R&D
  laboratories across several industries.
• Vertical marketplaces specialize in one type of industry, offering a
  one-stop shop for a large variety of products and services within
  that particular industry sector. There are numerous examples of
  vertical e-procurement sites ranging from automotive, electronics,
  heavy equipment construction materials, chemicals, etc. (see a list
  and references at https://virtocommerce.com/blog/vertical-b2b-
  marketplaces).
•     Exchanges organize spot markets among a large number of
  suppliers and buyers for certain types of commodities such as
  steel         (http://www.esteel.com)          or         chemicals
  (http://www.chemnet.com).

  There are also various forms of contracting methods. Transactions
can be one-to-one transactions or made in the form of reverse
auctions. The example below discusses an auction organized by SAP
Ariba (https://www.ariba.com/), a reverse auction market-maker. In
theory, electronic procurement enhances the capability to organize
global procurement because it can reach a larger number of suppliers
than more traditional methods. It also facilitates the valuable
interaction between suppliers and buyers. These reach capabilities
are at the roots of B2B marketplaces where global sourcing can
develop. However, companies need to invest in integrated software
called Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) that is offered by
companies such as SAP (http://www.sap.com) or Oracle
(http://www.oracle.com).


EXAMPLE 10.2 E-procurement and reverse auctions 6

Reverse auctions online is a process by which potential buyers of
goods or services invite potential sellers to bid online in a given time
frame. The initiator of reverse auctions was Freemarkets Online,
which organized e-procurement for industrial companies using
proprietary competitive bidding software, and connected more than
100 buyers and 11,100 suppliers from 64 countries.
   Freemarkets Online has since been sold to SAP Ariba. The
process of a reverse auction works as shown in Figure 10.5.




Figure 10.5 Reverse auction process

Note: RFQ = Request for qualification.

  The actual auction takes place in real time and can achieve 30–40
per cent savings, as illustrated in the following bidding example
(Figure 10.6).
Figure 10.6 Bidding profile for reverse auction

  Remember also that e-procurement does not eliminate the need for
the physical movement of goods. That still requires attention to good
logistics and all the vagaries of international trade such as import
barriers, quotas or duties.


Global logistics
An interconnected network of specialized suppliers and production
centres scattered across the world requires timely, secure and ‘lean’
logistics. Logistics are made up of three major functions:

•   Allocation
•   Distribution
•   Transportation.

The allocation function consists of deciding which products, in what
quantity and when/where they are going to be sent. These decisions
depend upon five major parameters:

•   The demand for the product or component in a particular place
•   The degree of specialization of the production or procurement unit
•   The capacity of the production or procurement unit
•   The level of acceptable inventories
•   The estimated transportation time.


EXAMPLE 10.3 Apple’s vs Amazon’s global supply chains in
2015

Apple

Apple is the leading global digital technology firm with a turnover of
$365 billion in 2021. Apple’s products are grouped into four main
categories:

•   Smartphones (iPhone): 53.5 per cent of revenue with 232 million
  units sold
• Tablets (iPad): 8.7 per cent of revenue with 53 million units sold
•   Computers (Mac): 9.6 per cent of revenue with 25 million units
  sold
• Services (iTunes) and other goods (iWatch, iPod): 10 per cent of
  revenue

Apple’s products are distributed all over the world: Americas (41.8
per cent), Europe (21 per cent), China (24.6 per cent), Japan and the
rest of Asia (15.1 per cent).
•  Apple’s global supply chain is made of five components: research
  and development, parts production, assembly, logistics and retail.
•    Apple’s R&D centre based in Cupertino, California develops
  products in-house but works closely with hardware and software
  suppliers in order to design and test components.
•    Part-production is allocated to 225 suppliers scattered in 27
  countries mainly across Asia (Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia, China),
  USA and Europe under the coordination of a global procurement
  team.
•    One single assembly plant, Foxconn located in China, handled 80
    per cent of the production of the 232 million iPhones sold in 2015.
•   Logistics is supplied by a series of warehouses and distribution
  centres: Apple’s facility in Elk Grove, California, plus UPS and
  Fedex facilities in Australia, China, the Czech Republic, Japan,
  Singapore, the UK and the USA.
•   Finally, retailing is provided via 519 Apple stores (located in 25
  countries), third-party retailers and online country-centred
  websites. Retailing is completed by a reverse logistics system to
  manage product returns.
Figure 10.7 Apple’s global supply chain


Amazon

Amazon, created in 1994, is the world’s leading internet-based
retailer. Consumers browse and shop on the Amazon website for a
large variety of goods ranging from books, electronics, home and
kitchen, and beauty products. It is estimated that Amazon offers
customers more than 12 million products via 13 different devoted
country websites. In addition around 350,000 suppliers worldwide
serve customers through Amazon Marketplace. Some of the suppliers
are direct, their products being stocked in Amazon’s fulfilment
centres, and some are third parties for whom Amazon process the
orders.
   In each country the Amazon website receives orders that are
transferred electronically to the fulfilment centres or the third-party
suppliers. All products transit through around 285 fulfilment centres.
where Amazon stores, packs, ships, and handles customer service.
In 2021 Amazon’s turnover was $1470 billion of which the USA
provided 60 per cent. In addition to the fulfilment centres, Amazon
has invested in transportation equipment to support air carriers such
as UBS and Fedex, and ocean shipping freight contractors. The
following picture sketches the Amazon global supply chain.
   In 2016 Amazon unveiled an ambitious plan, called ‘Dragon Boat’,
to upgrade its global delivery system. Its ambition is to control the
global flow of goods, and as part of the plan, the company bought
delivery companies and bought 11 Boeing planes in 2021 in addition
to using leased aircraft.




Figure 10.8 Amazon’s global logistics
   Another example of a cross-border logistics network is given in
Figure 10.9, showing how Airbus Industries organizes the flow of
aircraft components to their final assembly in either Hamburg or
Toulouse.




Figure 10.9 Airbus logistics


The global management of infrastructure projects
Large infrastructure projects such as airports, power plants,
petrochemical plants, pulp and paper mills, railway systems, bridges,
toll roads, real estate developments and so on constitute a particular
category of global operation. These projects involve various players,
as described in Figure 10.10.




Figure 10.10 Players in an international infrastructure project

  The various phases of international project management are
described in Table 10.3. There are many configurations of project
management, but they can be grouped into three main categories:

•       The direct project management configuration, in which the
    customer fulfils the role of project manager. For instance, when the
    Republic of Singapore decided to build a mass-transportation
    system, it created a special organization, the Mass Railways
    Transit (MRT), to take charge of managing the project to
    completion. The customer can call upon engineering firms to
    supervise the work and actually manage the project, but the
    engineering project team acts on behalf of the customer to
    coordinate these firms and is financially responsible only for the
    amount of its fees.
•  The turnkey project configuration, in which the customer contracts
  out the whole project to a specialized engineering firm or to a
  consortium of equipment suppliers. The project manager ensures
  completion at a fixed price and delivery time and hands over the
  project to the customer after the start-up phase. The project
  manager has control of and responsibility for the whole amount of
  the contract.
•    The Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT) configuration and its
  derivatives, in which the project manager is not only in charge of
  the construction, but also of the operation. At the end of a pre-
  arranged period, the infrastructure and operational responsibility is
  handed over to the customer. The project manager is responsible
  for the output and is paid on the basis of a predetermined price per
  unit of output ($ per kilowatt/hour, $ per toll fee, $ per cubic metre
  of water etc.). There are three main derivatives:

     –  BOO (Build, Operate and Own): the project manager keeps
       ownership
     — BOOT (Build, Own, Operate and Transfer): the project
       manager has full ownership of the infrastructure during the
       period of operation
     — ROT (Refurbish, Operate and Transfer): similar to BOT but
       involving refurbishment of old installations.
Table 10.3 Phases in international infrastructure projects


    Phases                       Content
    Pre-feasibility              •  Project concept
                                 •  Need/market assessment
                                 •  Strategic plan
                                 •  Approach international financial
                                   institutions
                                 • Approach engineering consultants and
                                   major industrial specialists
                                 • Set overall financial budgets
Feasibility           •  Assign consultant for feasibility study
                      •   Sketch broad project characteristics,
                        including cash flows and computation of
                        financial returns
                      • Arrange financing
                      • Choose project organization
                      • Select engineering firm
Basic engineering     •    Define basic technical parameters
                      •    Infrastructure blueprints
                      •    Project breakdown into various technical
                          areas (civil engineering, electrical,
                          chemical, power generation, IT,
                          regulations to satisfy etc.)
Detailed              •  Prepare documents for tendering
engineering/tendering •  Tenders, negotiation/selection of
                        equipment and contracting suppliers
                      • All detailed parameters in each project
                        part defined
Expediting/site       •    Preparation of construction site
construction          •    Civil engineering and construction (piling,
                          infrastructure – roads, ports, pipelines,
                          transmission, power, building contractors)
                      •    Reception of equipment
                      •    Erection/assembly of machinery
                      •    Layout of pipes, electrical cables, water
                          etc.
                      •    Final assembly
Training              •    Recruitment of personnel
                      •    On-the-job training at suppliers’ sites
                      •    Mock-up training
Start-up              •    First operations
 Operation              •   Verification of technical parameters
                        •   Reception by client
                        •   Managing the operation

More and more infrastructure projects in emerging countries are now
made on the basis of BOT contracts. BOT projects have an intrinsic
risk that can be analysed as a ‘hostage risk’.7 Before completion of
the project, the customer is willing to accept favourable conditions
because they need the infrastructure. Once the infrastructure is set
up, the supplier has no more bargaining power and its investment is
sunk in the project. Customers may argue that contracted fees for the
supply of the final output are too high. This hostage problem has been
described by Wells and Gleason (1995) and is well illustrated by the
Enron Power Plant at Dabhol in the state of Maharashtra in India (see
the example that follows).


EXAMPLE 10.4 Enron in India: the Dabhol Power Plant8

The Dabhol Power Company (DPC) was a consortium of Enron
Power, Bechtel Enterprises and General Electric, led by Enron. In
1995, DPC signed a contract with the Maharashtra State Electricity
Board for the construction and operation of a 625 megawatt power
plant costing $922 million. According to the contract, the state
committed to buy the output at a level of tariff structure that would
provide DPC with a 25.22 per cent return on investment. During the
same year, general elections brought to power a new state
government which cancelled the project, invoking a lack of
transparency and too high a proposed tariff payable to DPC. After
negotiations, the project was redesigned and finally accepted under
different terms. The first phase of the project was completed and the
financing of a second phase was finalized in 1999. However, by April
2001 Enron was threatening to withdraw from India because the local
utility company was not complying with its obligations. Following
Enron’s financial debacle, the Dabhol Power Plant went up for sale in
early 2002.


The internet and global operations
The combination of broadband capabilities, connectivity, standard
languages (HTML, XML), wireless communication and portability have
given birth to the digital age and its most pervasive manifestation: the
internet. The internet is a global network connecting billions of devices
across the world, exchanging data, opinions, information and news
using a common architecture, the Internet Protocol (IP). In essence,
the internet is a global tool since it has abolished physical distance
barriers to the transmission of data, images and sounds and it has
standardized the transmission protocol as well as the machine
software, making it possible for any computer in the world to be part
of the network and to ‘talk’ to other computers. Estimates show that
e-commerce reached around $13 trillion in 2021. Internet usage is
spreading and growing all over the world (see Figure 10.11). The
internet was at the root of the so-called ‘new economy’ that flourished
from 1995 to 2000 and is still growing quickly today despite slumping
in 2001 as the ‘dotcom bubble’ burst. According to the McKinsey
Research Institute, ‘the internet is, and will remain over coming
decades, one of the biggest drivers of global economic growth’.9
Figure 10.11 Global use of the internet, April 2020
Source: World Development Indicators, The World Bank, http://wdi.worldbank.org/table/5.12
(accessed 1 February 2022).


The Digital Revolution

Digital affects all sectors of business and society. It was estimated
that over 2.14 billion people worldwide bought goods and services
online in 2021, an increase from 1.66 billion global digital buyers in
2016. As noted by Monteiro and Carrick in their report ‘Digital
transformation in Latin America: leapfrogging and social impact,’10
during 2018, global e-retail sales amounted to $2.8 trillion and
projections show a growth of up to $4.8 trillion by 2021.11 The
number of smartphone users by August 2020 surpassed 3 billion and
is forecast to grow further by several hundred million in the next few
years.12 New business models were disrupting traditional ways of
doing business – be it Uber, Facebook, Google, Amazon, PayPal,
Skype, Spotify or WeChat. AI and sophisticated analytical software
signalled that the digital revolution was in full flight. In response,
incumbents reinvented their businesses – for example IBM’s
supercomputer Watson combined AI and sophisticated analytics
software.
   Significant landmarks in the history of digital included the arrival of
mass-market personal computers (PCs) in the mid-1980s. In the
1990s, organizations and businesses computerized processes with
the maturing of digital design tools and robotized manufacturing
equipment. The 2000s witnessed the arrival of outsourcing and
‘offshoring’ operations and services. Henceforth, multinational
enterprises could exploit once-incongruent corporate IT systems to
improve coordination.
   There were two fundamental dimensions to digital transformation
for all businesses: 1) cutting costs and 2) getting closer to the
customer.13 Connectivity was key. Analysts estimated that 63 per
cent of the world’s population would have access to internet by 2021
and 50.5 per cent by mobile.14 In 2020, smartphone sales reached
1.57 billion. People spent more time on mobile devices as the number
of apps grew. Cisco estimated that there would be a sevenfold
increase in global mobile data traffic by 2021.
   Connectivity to customers, suppliers and other stakeholders
allowed organizations to turn processes and devices into networks to
capture the vast amounts of information they received. Businesses
used digital platforms that connected all players rather than doing
business through intermediaries. Platforms were an integral part of
the digital economy, used for making payments and ecommerce (see
Table 10.4). Businesses often used third-party platforms for new
projects rather than building them in house.
   Most digital initiatives were built on ‘third platform technologies’
including mobile, cloud computing, big data/analytics and social
technologies. Innovation accelerators such as IoT, robotics, 3D
printing and security all depended on these platforms and were
considered key growth factors for many businesses.
   Another dimension was the advent of social media, and new tools
for data analysis. Facebook monthly users increased from 1 million at
the end of 2004 when it was launched, to 600 million at the end of
2010, and 2.7 billion by the second quarter of 2020.15 By August
2020, there were 3.8 billion social media users globally.16

The players

As with many innovations, the internet was originally created in the
1960s out of the Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA) in the
USA. It became a really widespread tool in the late 1990s and grew
at a tremendous pace during the first decade of the twenty-first
century. The internet is mainly known for its main application, the
World Wide Web, or the Web. Today Web technology has evolved
into what is commonly known as Web 2.0, which allows for
intercommunication among internet users. In 2022, already a third
internet generation (Web 3.0), more decentralized, using artificial
intelligence and machine learning was gaining importance. The
internet is no longer a passive tool but a real exchange platform.
   Usage of the Web is divided broadly into two categories:

•   The individual users’ space for persons or organizations who use
  the Web for emailing, browsing for information, downloading
  documents or videos, playing games, listening to music, watching
  movies, chatting on social networks such as Instagram, Twitter,
  WeChat and possibly buying goods and services
•    The commercial space or e-business, consisting of three major
  categories of players:
1 The traditional companies of the so-called ‘old economy’, also
   called ‘bricks and mortar’, that offer physically produced products
   and services with ‘real’ assets. These companies use the
   technology for selling, buying, partnering and internal management
   through their internet (open to the general public) or intranet
   (secure site internal to the company) websites or extranet (secure
   websites external to the company).
2 The ‘pure players’ or ‘dotcom’ companies that have been created
   to enable Web transactions and whose products and services
   essentially organize transactions, serve as e-commerce
   intermediaries and provide software platforms. Among those
   players you can find:
        – E-commerce companies selling or organizing sales to
          customers (B2C: business-to-consumer), trade among
          companies (B2B: business-to-business) or among
          customers (C2C: customer-to-customer). Well-known
          examples are Amazon (B2C retailer), eBay (C2C
          auctioneer), E*Trade (B2C investment), SAP Ariba (B2B
          procurement) and Alibaba (B2B and B2C commerce).
        — Intermediaries providing tools for transactions: e-
          payment, security, domain names, search engines and
          so on (e.g. Paypal for payment, Skype for telephony).
        — Search engines or browsers such as Google or Yahoo!
        —    Social networks such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn,
           Instagram.
3 The companies providing physical products or services to the two
  previous types of players:
        — Internet Service Providers (ISPs) providing access to
           the Web: ATT, BT, Orange, Deutsche Telecom and most
           of the traditional telecom operators.
        — Traditional software vendors and application service
           providers (ASPS), selling or supporting software: Oracle,
           SAP, IBM.
        — Web hosting and maintenance: companies that provide
           space on servers and various services for data
           management including cloud storage.
        — Consulting firms advising companies about internet
           applications and development: Accenture, Gartner,
           Forrester.
        — Content providers: Reuters, Netflix, Apple, Walt Disney,
           media companies.
        — Equipment providers: CISCO, Nortel, Nokia, Huawei.
   Figure 10.12 gives a pictorial representation of the internet space.




Figure 10.12 Players in the internet space

  Table 10.4 below provides a summary of the different types of
digital platforms.
Table 10.4 Digital platforms


 Non-profit-oriented   Profit-oriented        E-commerce platforms
 digital platforms and digital platforms      and examples
 examples              and examples
 Exchange platforms Electronic payment         Incumbent companies’
 –                  platforms                  platforms – Caterpillar,
 HomeExchange.com                              Ikea, Zara
                    – Alipay, Paypal,
                    M-Pesa, Visa,
                    Mastercard

 Donation platforms            Crowdfunding    Third-party goods e-
 – freecycle,                  platforms –     commerce platforms –
Nolotiro.org    Caterse,            Amazon, Alibaba,
                Kickstarter         eBay, MercadoLibre,
                                    Etsy

Free services   Social media –      Third-party e-
platforms –     Facebook, Twitter   commerce platforms –
Couchsurfing
                                    •    Transportation –
                                        99, Uber, DiDi
                                    •    Delivery –
                                        Deliveroo, Rappi
                                    •    Tourism – Airbnb,
                                        Booking.com
                                    •    Financial services
                                        (lending) – Zopa,
                                        Prosper
                                    •    Entertainment –
                                        iTunes, Netflix
                                    •    Media –
                                        Bloomberg, Reuters
                                    •    Advertising –
                                        Facebook, Google
                                    •    Search – Yahoo,
                                        Google search
                                    •    Information/reviews
                                        – Yelp, Tripadvisor
                                    •    Learning – edX,
                                        Lynda.com
                                    •    Health –
                                        Doctor.com,
                                        MDLive, Doctolib
                                    •    Digital labour (gig
                                        work) – Airbnb,
                                        TaskRabbit
                                                             •  Digital labour
                                                               (cloud work) –
                                                               Upwork, Amazon
                                                               MTurk
                                                             • Apps Markets –
                                                               AppStore,
                                                               GooglePlay
                                                             • Cloud Services –
                                                               AWS, Microsoft
                                                               Azure, Tencent

    Other sharing
    economy platforms
    – Goteo, Wikipedia


Source: UNCTAD Digital Economy Report,
https://unctad.org/en/publicationslibrary/der2019_en.pdf (accessed 7 April 2020).


Types of e-transaction for businesses

  When we look at business-related transactions on the Web, we
can distinguish three types:

•      Commercial transactions external to the firm: e-commerce
  (selling), e-procurement (buying).
•   External relational transactions other than buying and selling: e-
  partnering (coordinating, information-sharing, R&D with partners).
• Internal relations: e-management (planning and control, database
  sharing, recruiting, training, administration), information collection,
  knowledge management.

The contribution of the internet to globalization

The internet is, by design, a global network. It can be seen as an
additional driver to globalization, but not a revolutionary one. As
discussed in Chapter 1, globalization has been enhanced and
fostered by political, technological, sociological and competitive
factors. The additional contribution that the internet brings to
globalization trends is the enhanced capability to decouple physical
activities from the information exchange needed to support them.
Evans and Wurster have argued that the internet breaks the
traditional reach versus richness trade-off (see Insert 10.1) and, as a
consequence, fosters the ability of companies to organize
transactions and transfer data beyond national boundaries in real
time.17 The internet is a facilitator to globalization.
    An UNCTAD report estimated that the global value of e-commerce
sales (including both B2B and B2C) amounted to around US$ 26
trillion in 2018,18 representing 30 % GDP with a growth of eight %
over 2017. The value of global B2B e-commerce was estimated at
US$ 21 trillion, representing 83% of all e-commerce.
    Standardized products, such as commodities, are those that
benefit most from internet transactions because most commodities
were traditionally traded electronically. Traders in commodities were
already used to anonymous, real-time transactions and the internet
adds a convenient unified network for these.
    Progressively semi-customized products, such as metal-engineered
parts, can also find their way into the e-marketplace because once
there is an agreement on technical specifications, reverse auctions
can be organized for their procurement, as mentioned earlier.


  Insert 10.1 The ‘reach versus richness’ trade-
  off
  Evans and Wurster argue that, traditionally, economic activities
  are constrained by the difficulty of simultaneously achieving
  intense exchange of information (richness) with a large number
  of people (reach). Economic entities therefore have to choose
  between volume (reach) and quality of relationships (richness).
  See Figure 10.13. If a company wants to increase its volume
and reach a larger number of people, it has to reduce the
amount of information it exchanges with the customer and
therefore standardize its product and customer interactions.
Hypermarkets that can handle large numbers of customers
provide no (or little) assistance to customers, for example. On
the other hand, when a company wants to customize a product
or service, it needs to exchange rich information with customers,
but there is a limit to the number of customers it can handle. A
specialized boutique giving expert advice to customers cannot
handle as many customers as a supermar-ket. This
reach/richness trade-off has induced companies to choose
between two fundamental strategic positions: high-volume, low-
cost standardized products/services or low-volume differentiation
(see Figure 11.8).
Figure 10.13 Reach vs richness trade-off

   The internet, because of its standard platform and
connectivity, and because of its ability to carry very rich
information in the form of text and video as well as voice and
data, permits a certain degree of customization for a vast
number of people, therefore increasing reach without sacrificing
richness. It is possible, for instance, to work at a distance with
suppliers or customers and still exchange customized
information.
See Evans and Wurster (2000).
  George Yip, amongst others, has made predictions for the impact
of the internet upon global trade – such as increased globalization of
markets and wider choice for individual consumers, global cost
reductions, fiercer global competition and fewer governmental
barriers to free trade.19 See Table 10.5 for a summary of some of
these predictions.
Table 10.5 Effects of the internet on globalization


                     Global markets
                     •  Makes marketing communication and advertising
                       more global (reinforcing global brands and
                       branding)
                     • Facilitates the management of global customers
                       and global procurement
                     • Facilitates access for small and medium-sized
                       companies to global markets through e-commerce
                     • Facilitates the development of global products
                     Global competitiveness
 For
 corporations •         Reduces costs of transactions and
                       communications with customers, suppliers,
                       partners, and employees across the world
                     • Reduces costs of monitoring and organizing
                       global logistics
                     • Reduces costs of raw materials and other
                       supplies (thanks to global e-sourcing)
                     Global innovation
                     •    Global access to databases
                     •    Facilitates coordination of global research
                         projects and global teamwork
 For                 •    Makes global brands more visible
 consumers           •    Makes global purchasing feasible
                     •    Provides access to global information
                    •  Provides access to comparative assessments of
                      competitive products from different countries
                    • Provides easy and economical purchasing of
                      global travel (e-tickets, e-lodging)

Sources: Authors’ own table, drawn from text of McKinsey (2016); Yip (2000); Borcuch et al.
(2012).

   However, in spite of their global enhancement capabilities, internet
transactions across borders are subject to potential limitations owing
to regulatory and sociotechnical and cultural factors:

•   Cross-border regulatory restrictions, such as customs duties and
  VAT taxes, still apply to the physical transfer of goods bought on
  the internet.
• Local legislation, such as the insistence of certain governments to
  restrict access to certain websites. A well-publicized example was
  provided by the experience of Yahoo! with French anti-racist
  legislation (see the example below).
•    Sociotechnical and cultural factors, such as the propensity of
  customers to accept online payment, and attitudes towards
  electronic trade versus direct face-to-face relationships which may
  hamper or foster the development of e-business.


EXAMPLE 10.5 Yahoo! and anti-racist legislation in France

In November 2000, a French court ruled that Yahoo! should block
French users from viewing and buying Nazi memorabilia on its
American auction site, in accordance with French anti-racist
regulations. The implication of the judgment was that Yahoo!’s parent
company in the United States, and not just the French subsidiary,
should make sure that access to auctions of Nazi objects should be
banned to French citizens. Yahoo! counterattacked by asking the US
court to declare that this decision could not be enforced in the United
States because it violates the First Amendment of the American
constitution and that US citizens were not obliged to follow French
rules outside France. A US district court followed this argument, and
decided that Yahoo! was not bound by the French judgment. Two
French human rights groups appealed the decision. This series of
events generated a polemic about the right of governments to
regulate a ‘global’ medium such as the internet. Some analysts saw
the French decision as a dangerous one for the future of the Web,
others argued that the internet had to follow local rules.
   Jack Goldsmith, a Professor of Law at the University of Chicago,
wrote a commentary on the case in the Financial Times. Goldsmith
refuted the concept of internet communication being inherently any
less bound by geographical jurisdictions than any other medium, all of
which ‘facilitate transactions by someone in ‘real space’ in one nation
with someone in ‘real space’ in another nation’. Goldsmith went on to
assert that France had every right to clamp down on action on French
territory that violated its laws or threatened its citizens.
Sources: Various press reports; Goldsmith (2000).



   As companies such as Google, Amazon or Meta (formerly known
as Facebook) have discovered, globalizing their businesses is not so
different from the experience of traditional ‘bricks and mortar’
companies. It still requires the development of local alliances,
acquisitions and an adaptation of the product offering to local
conditions (see Insert 10.2).


   Insert 10.2 How do internet companies
   globalize?
   Internet companies, known as ‘dotcoms’, follow a classic pattern
   of international expansion in order to get global reach. They
   invest in countries and set up subsidiaries, acquire local players
   or enter into strategic alliances. Most of the overseas investment
   for dotcom firms is in the creation of sales offices. Some may
    set up software development centres in India. Amazon is present
    in 14 countries, Google in over 50, Meta in 37.


The internet and global firms

Overall, the internet was seen during the heady days of the ‘new
economy’ in 1999 and 2000 as a new business paradigm, allowing
firms to completely revolutionize the way they designed and
implemented strategies.20 This view was fuelled by the hyperinflation
of stock valuations, when any dotcom newcomer could challenge the
market value of well-established centenarian ‘bricks and mortar’
players. The subsequent bursting of the market bubble showed that
traditional business strategy models are still valid, even in virtual
space.21
   For global or globalizing firms, the internet provides a tool to
manage internal and external linkages, to run business processes
more efficiently and to enhance their cross-border management
capabilities, including:

•       Real-time communication over all locations in various media:
    video, text and data
•     Ability to field customer interactions, requests and feedback and
    to consolidate customer data
•    Ability to serve as a platform for a global knowledge management
    system
•         Ability to reach new suppliers through electronic global
    procurement
•     Ability to identify and communicate with customers in low-density
    locations.

These capabilities are embodied in the recent technological
development around the concepts of Web 2.0, internet of things (IoT)
and Industry 4.0.
Web 2.0

The term Web 2.0, introduced in 1999, describes the evolution of the
internet toward full interactivity among Web users who can share files
in audio, text or video format, talk to each other, share programmes
and store data remotely (cloud computing). According to a McKinsey
research report:
 Web 2.0 technologies can be a powerful lure for an organization; their interactivity
 promises to bring more employees into daily contact at lower cost. When used effectively,
 they also may encourage participation in projects and idea sharing, thus deepening a
 company’s pool of knowledge. They may bring greater scope and scale to organizations
 as well, strengthening bonds with customers and improving communications with
 suppliers and outside partners.22

  Among the major benefits that the McKinsey survey highlighted are
faster access to information, a reduction in communication costs and
an increasing effectiveness of marketing. All of these benefits
obviously appeal to global management, for which communication and
knowledge management across borders make up an important
feature of competitive capability.

Industry 4.0, the smart factory and the internet of things

Recently, the possibility of autonomous robots and machines
communicating with each other through an internet connection (part of
the ‘internet of things’ concept of networked devices communicating
with their users and with each other) has given rise to the concept of
the ‘smart factory’, a key part of the wider trend of increasing data
exchange and automation in manufacturing that is known as Industry
4.0.
   Outlined in the book The Fourth Industrial Revolution by Professor
Klaus Schwab, Industry 4.0 encompasses ‘new technologies that
combine the physical, digital and biological worlds, impacting all
disciplines, economies and industries [see Table 10.14 below]. These
technologies have great potential to continue to connect billions more
people to the web and drastically improve the efficiency of business
and organizations.’
   Through the combination and convergence of advanced
technologies – including industrial internet of things (IoT), automation,
artificial intelligence, the cloud and big data and analytics – Industry
4.0 is revamping business practices, transforming market dynamics
across industries and generating collaborative approaches to
innovation and the global supply chain.
   The potential for achieving efficiency, productivity and sustainability
gains becomes exponential as these technologies connect and
communicate with one another together with machines becoming
smarter as they continue to access and process more data.
   The smart factory represents a combination of decentralized
production sites operating in real time through online connections,
with the possibility of local adaptation.
   There are not as yet many concrete examples of such a smart
factory in practice, but many global players are experimenting with
the concept.
Table 10.6 The evolution of Industry 4.0


 Date               Phase                    Details
 1800                                        Start of the industrial
                                             revolution with the
                                             invention of mechanical
                                             production with steam

                     INDUSTRY 1.0

 1900                                        Mass production
                                             powered by electricity
                                             and combustion engines
                                             – assembly lines
                     INDUSTRY 2.0
 1970                                                 Electronics, IT for
                                                      advanced automation of
                                                      production processes –
                                                      computers, IT and
                  INDUSTRY 3.0                        internet mark the
                                                      beginning of the
                                                      information age

 2015                                                 Data analytics as a core
                                                      capability – internet of
                                                      things, cloud, mobile
                                                      devices, artificial
                  INDUSTRY 4.0                        intelligence, advanced
                                                      algorithms, 3D printing,
                                                      smart factory


Source: Table drawn by authors based on PwC (2016).

   Siemens has a production centre in Amberg (Germany) that
resembles this model of a smart factory. Set up in 1989, the factory
is transforming from analogue manufacturing to analytical-fuelled
digital production. The factory produces 1,200 different products from
circuit boards to an entire production plant. The production line
configurations need to be changed 350 times per day. In the past,
this was done manually but now this laborious task has been replaced
by a digital version created by a computer model of the products,
production line and manufacturing process known as ‘digital twins’. By
making a replica of everything built, it helps streamline and speed up
setting new configurations. This digital preview also helps identify
possible bottlenecks and unforeseen requirements. The digitalization
of the factory floor resulted in a 1,400 per cent increase in
productivity.

Digital technologies and disruption to job and skills
The introduction of increasingly sophisticated digital technologies is
transforming the nature of work and imposing a re-evaluation of
corporate structures, workplace business practices and leadership
paradigms. As AI technologies, robotics and cognitive tools develop,
almost all jobs are reinvented. See Chapter 14 for a fuller discussion.

Industry 4.0 technologies and global supply chains
Advanced technologies are profoundly impacting traditional supply
chains as they move from a linear model to an open, flexible and
digitally interconnected ecosystem aimed at responding to fast
changes in demand, increasing service levels and opening up
integrated and collaborative approaches to suppliers’ operations.
   This digital supply network – whose components are being
developed today – will enable companies at a global scale to be
more resilient, efficient and closer to customers. This digital supply
chain will enable companies to anticipate, adjust and respond to
changes in the supply chain in real time as these changes happen.
   The degree of adoption of supply chain 4.0 is likely to vary from
firm to firm and from country to country but could be a factor
influencing location and the distribution of firms (e.g. integrating
multiple stages of production at a single location or using technologies
such as 3D printing for a shorter, more localized value chain where
manufacturing takes place closer to the end-user) (see Figure 10.15).

Comparison of the traditional supply chain model and the
integrated supply chain ecosystem




Figure 10.14 Traditional supply chain model
Figure 10.15 Integrated supply chain ecosystem

Table 10.7 Comparison of supply chains


 Evolution                    Traditional linear      Integrated supply
                              supply chain            chain ecosystem
 Transparency                 Limited view of         Complete view of
                              supply chain            supply chain

 Communication                Information delayed     Information available
                              as it moves through     to each supply chain
                              each organization       member
                                                      simultaneously

 Collaboration                Limited visibility to   Natural development
                             the entire chain –    of collaboration depth
                             hindering             to capture supply
                             collaboration         chain value

    Flexibility              End customer          End customer
                             demand distorted as   demand changes are
                             information flows     rapidly assessed
                             along the material
                             path

    Responsiveness           Different planning    Real-time response
                             cycles resulting in   on planning and
                             delays and            execution level
                             unsynchronized        (across all tiers to
                             responses across      demand changes)
                             multiple tiers

Source: Authors’ own adapted from PwC (2016).


Internal implications

In order to harness the full potential of the internet, businesses need
to develop several types of web-enabling capabilities:

•      Partnering capabilities:
     — the ability to form partnerships and to activate them in real
     time
  — the ability to share information with partners so that the
     transaction can be executed automatically
  — the ability to make deals instantaneously
•   A ‘no secrets’ management system: in order to make decisions
  quickly, the various internal processes of the company have to
  share information (in fact, automatically) horizontally
•   Decision making: an ability to make important decisions, such as
  pricing, at increased speed, on occasion in real time, implying a
  very strong decentralization of authority
• Feedback: collecting, consolidating, interpreting and disseminating
  feedback from customers, so as to adapt and respond to local
  conditions
• IT: to develop an IT platform and telecoms network that can work
  in a seamless way.

  In order to participate in the Web economy, firms are not only
cataloguing their products on the Web and enabling ‘one-click’ sales,
as currently happens on most of the B2C internet sites, but have had
to completely rethink their managerial systems, structures and
cultures. Table 10.8 summarizes these internal implications.
Table 10.8 Organizational requirements for e-business


    Internal                 Consequences
    requirements
    Transparency             •    Integrity and consistency of information
                             •    Clarity of data and procedures
    Sharing culture          •  Horizontal as well as vertical exchange of
                               information
                             • External partners have access to
                               databases
                             • No ‘silos’ of jealously guarded hoarded
                               information

    Process                  •   All management processes are compatible
    integration                  with each other to facilitate information flow

    Pooled                   •    Sequential coordination too time-
    coordination                 consuming; therefore needs:
                         —  Ability to have different departments
                           working together instantaneously instead
                           of sequentially
                         — Ability to bundle different parameters in
                           real time

 Real-time           •    Ability to make decisions quickly
 commitment          •    No time for hierarchical checking

 Horizontal          •    Hierarchical communications and decision
 processes               processes are inefficient


  These organizational attributes may sometimes conflict with local
cultures. The challenge for the global firm is to overcome these
cultural differences among their employees, suppliers, customers and
partners in order to make Web transactions effective.




  MINI-CASE 10.1

  The globalization of the sharing economy: Airbnb,
  Uber and BlaBlaCar

  The development of the internet has considerably expanded the
  already well-established practice of making individually owned
  private assets or services available to other individuals. For
  instance, bed and breakfast accommodation or carpooling were
  commonplace concepts years before the appearance of Web-
  based platforms such as Airbnb, Uber or Blablacar. What is new
  with these concepts of the ‘sharing economy’ are their massive
  amplitude and their global spread. Short descriptions of three
‘collaborative consumption’     platforms   and    their   global
development follow.

Airbnb

Founded in California in 2007 under the name of ‘Airbed and
Breakfast’ by three young, freshly graduated entrepreneurs, this
Web-based platform puts private home owners in contact with
individuals looking for temporary accommodation. The concept is
simple: the owners of an apartment, a house or a room
subscribes to the platform (later renamed ‘Airbnb’) which
publicizes it on its Web page. Potential customers can contact
the owner directly to arrange details of a rental. The website
gets a commission from the transaction. Launched and refined in
the USA, Airbnb rapidly expanded its service in 2011 to
European tourism hotspots such as France and Spain, thanks to
the acquisition of a small German platform. By 2019 the service
was offering 7 million places to stay in more than 100,000 cities
in 220 countries to 750 million guests.23 In the process the
company has developed tools such as translation software and
online tourist guides. The company has, however, confronted
local legal, administrative and taxation disputes provoked by
what has been labelled ‘unfair competition’ by the traditional
hospitality industry, and as a tax-evading device by local
authorities.

Uber

Uber Technology Inc. was founded in 2009 in San Francisco and
benefited initially from venture capital funding. The business
model was based on direct contact (via a mobile phone
application) between a customer looking for a ride and an Uber
driver using either their own car or a company car but acting as
an independent driver. Compared with traditional taxis, the
service is personalized, more prompt and cheaper. The main
feature is that the driver is not an employee of the company but
acts on their own. Originally the market was limited to luxury
cabs but rapidly expanded to all vehicles, competing directly with
normal taxis. The first international expansion introduced Uber in
Paris in 2011, London in 2012, Taiwan, Johannesburg and
Bangalore in 2013, and China and Brazil in 2014. By 2020, Uber
operated in 93 countries and 900 cities. The business model has
attracted a lot of resistance from professional taxi drivers who
claim that Uber competition is unfair because Uber drivers did not
have to pay the normal extra taxes that taxis have to bear.
However, Uber’s success has yet to be confirmed. Several local
governments are imposing restrictions on Uber’s business model.
According to a Fortune article, Uber recently revealed that it is
losing more than $1 billion per year in China, and that ‘Beyond its
well-documented troubles in China, it is also struggling in Europe.
The young tech company has committed a classic globalization
mistake: it naively assumed that its business model and market
approach, which ultimately solidified its market-leading position in
the U.S., could translate just as seamlessly to other countries.’24

BlaBlaCar

In 2004 a group of young French MBA graduates created a
website to bring together people looking for long-distance rides
and people travelling in their own cars. The ‘passenger’ would
contribute to expenses. The site was named ‘covoiturage’
(‘carpooling’ in French) and later became BlaBlaCar in 2012
when the young company started a significant expansion
programme through Europe. In 2014 it raised $100 million from a
Californian investment fund in order to finance its international
expansion. In 2015 it acquired Carpooling.com, its German main
competitor. By 2016 BlaBlaCar had expanded to Turkey, Mexico,
India and Brazil and was present in 22 countries with more than
90 million members.23 In its global expansion the company is
looking for countries of more than 50 million inhabitants, good
road networks and potential journey times between cities of one
to four hours. In its expansion plans BlaBlaCar has to take into
account local conditions, and cultures in which the concept of
travelling with an unknown person in their car is not necessarily
commonplace.

Questions:

1  Using these three examples, what is your assessment of the
  role of the internet in globalization?
2 Are the global expansion experiences of these three
  platforms similar to any other global expansion you know of?




MINI-CASE 10.2

Ericsson global value chain

Created in Stockholm in 1876 where Lars Magnus Ericsson
designed telephones, Ericsson in 2021 is a global company that
supplies communication infrastructure, services and software to
the telecom industry and other sectors. With a global turnover of
233 billion SEK ($27.3 billion) and approximately 100,000
employees, it serves customers in more than 180 countries.
  Ericsson operates in four major segments:

•    Networks (71 per cent of sales): radio access networks
  solutions such as 5G, combining hardware products, such as
  antennae, and network deployment
•     Digital services (16 per cent of sales): software-based
  solutions for business and operational support, communication
  services, core networks and cloud infrastructure
•   Managed services (10 per cent of sales): networks and IT
  managed services, network design and optimization, and
  application development and maintenance to telecom
  operators
• Emerging business and others (3 per cent of sales): supports
  enterprises by providing reliable and secure cellular solutions
  that are easy to use, adopt and scale for global and local
  needs.

Geographically, Ericsson operates in 180 countries organized in
five regional segments as represented below:

•   North America: 32 per cent of sales
•   Europe and Latin America: 24 per cent of sales
•   North Asia: 14 per cent of sales
•   South East Asia, Oceania and India: 13 per cent of sales
•   Middle East and Africa: 10 per cent of sales

The total production of products and services relies on eight
manufacturing sites worldwide, four service delivery centres and
15 R&D centres (see below).
Figure 10.16 Ericsson global sites and centres

   In addition, Ericsson deals with around 30,000 suppliers
worldwide, and their products and services often account for a
large part of the deliveries to customers. The suppliers have
been divided into around 300 categories. Each category has a
leader, who is responsible for optimizing the category, so that the
right suppliers are chosen based on their numbers, quality,
geographical spread, price and risk. The target is to minimize the
number to get the most out of the supplier base based on
economical, value creation and risk perspectives. The idea is to
concentrate on the thirty or so biggest categories, which
together represent around 90 per cent of the total spend. Once
their numbers have been reduced, the remaining suppliers are
segmented depending on their importance and potential to
Ericsson. A supplier relationship manager then makes sure that
maximum value is extracted from the suppliers, and that they can
contribute to Ericsson’s business through their innovation and
ability to complement the Ericsson portfolio. A range of tools and
processes are developed for this purpose. The company has
created a particular function, Sourcing Business Partner (SBP).
According to the company,
    The SBP supports and works closely to the sales organization, adding value to the
    process by contributing their knowledge of the supplier base, the market and
    different business models. This could include identifying that a customer can
    improve the supply chain by using other suppliers in preparation for an offer to take
    over a service, or identifying suppliers that can contribute to a new solution.


Eriksson global value chain and the Covid-19 crisis

By the spring of 2021 the company announced that:
    All main Ericsson production sites were in operation. Ericsson continues to follow
    the situation of the coronavirus and recommendations from the local authorities and
    WHO, as the company assesses its supply chain. The supply chain has worked
    with limited interruption and was expected to continue to work to further improve
    resilience by, for example, increasing inventories of critical components. However,
    the longer the lockdown in many countries continues, the more disruptions we will
    likely see.
       Ericsson has a global supply chain set up, which ensures the company works
    close to customers through its European, Asian and American operations. Our
    main production facilities are in Estonia, Poland, China, India, Brazil, Mexico and the
    US.


Questions:

1  To what extent does the SBP function linking the suppliers’
  bases with the customer base make Ericsson better equipped
  to solve a customer’s problem?
2 What constraints and costs are generated with this SBP
  organization?
Sources: Company website annual report 2020, https://www.ericsson.com/en/investors
and https://www.ericsson.com/en/news/2020/3/coronavirus-disease_faq (both
accessed 1 February 2022).


Summary and key points
1   Global operations:
    a    Defined as an integrated network of facilities located
      across the world, performing the functions of procurement,
      production, distribution and servicing of products for
      customers
    b Four major decision dimensions:
        •     Location
      • Production
      • Sourcing
      • Logistics
2   Offshoring and outsourcing
    a      Offshoring: production in an international locality. Two
        types of offshoring:
        •
       Local for local: production for the local market
        •
       Local for global: production for the global network
  b   Outsourcing: buying products or services internationally.
    Two types of outsourcing:
    • Local for local: sourcing for the local market
    • Local for global: sourcing for the global network
3 Choice of location
    a    Criteria for location include:
        •      Costs
        •      Proximity
        •      Environment
        •      Learning
    b       Ultimate choice depends on:
      • Kind of facilities
      • Role of facilities in the network
4   Global production networks
    a  Set of integrated production centres deployed across the
      world
    b Two kinds of global production networks:
      • Global manufacturing networks
      • Global service networks
    c Global manufacturing networks:
        •    Classifications:
            —    ‘Network architecture model’ based on the role of
                plants as information and knowledge creators. Four
                main types of plant:
                ○  Isolated – concentrate on production of products
                 for specific geographical markets; do not
                 communicate much with others; installed in import-
                 substitution countries that require local production
                 for their domestic markets
             ○        Blueprint – receive (but not create) a lot of
                 innovation; produce goods according to blue-print
                 received from elsewhere; located in low-cost
                 countries or EPZs
             ○       Host plant network player – well-established
                 factories serving large markets that have
                 developed a high degree of competence in state-
                 of-the-art manufacturing technology; not at the
                 forefront of innovation
             ○     Innovator plant network player – play central role
                 in product and process adaptation and innovation;
                 source of inspiration for other factories
            — ‘Strategic roles model’ classified according to
              strategic role based on two main variables:
      ○    Primary strategic reason for setting up plant in a
          particular country, including accessing:
•   Low-cost production
•   Skills and know-how
•   Markets
      ○     Competencies of plant – tasks a given site is
          capable of doing:
          •  Assume responsibility for production
          •  Maintain technical processes
          •  Purchase locally
          •  Make process improvements
          •  Develop suppliers
          •  Develop processes
          •              Make     product    improvement
            recommendations
          • Develop products
          •   Supply global markets and become a global
             hub for product and process knowledge
• Types of global plants in a network:
 — Offshore factory: Produces low-cost items to be
    re-exported either for sales or to be reworked and
    integrated with other components
 — Source factory: Produces low-cost items but
    factory has larger responsibilities for procurement,
    production, planning, process modifications,
    redesign and logistics
 — Server factory: Produces products or components
    for local or regional markets, relatively autonomous
    in the network for production, planning and
    modification, but dependent on technology and
    critical components’ input
            — Contributor factory: Produces for local or regional
            market but with wider range of responsibilities in
            local sourcing, product redesign and process
            modification
        — Outpost factory: Close to competition and key
            suppliers to learn about technological development
        — Lead factory: Factory design and producing
            products for the entire global network, responsible
            for the whole value chain of a product category
      • Evolutionary path of a global plant:
        — An outpost factory evolves to become a lead
            factory either directly or indirectly through becoming
            first a source factory or contributor factory
        — An offshore factory evolves to a source factory and
            possibly becomes a lead factory in the long term
        — A server factory evolves to a contributor factory
            and possibly becomes a lead factory in the long
            term involving change of plant competencies
5   Global services network
    a  In the back offices, goods or support to services can be
      performed separately from their consump-tion; goods or
      services can be stocked
    b Global services can be classified as:
        •Offshore centres: Perform isolated act of production
        •    Source centres: Produce with certain degree of
        autonomy for supporting local markets – catering
        facility, distribution centres
      • Contributor centres: May have regional role
      • Outpost centres: Market intelligence
      • Lead centre: Design centre
    c Front office operations:
        •   In immediate contact with customers and need to be
          close to the market
        • Physical front office and remote front office
        •  Require special attention to language, customs and
        social code adaptation
6   Global sourcing
    a    A coordinated approach to the selection of suppliers
      located across the world and the procurement of goods
      and services to be fulfilled in the global supply chain
    b        Various forms depending upon the degree of
      centralization and degree of vertical integration of the
      procurement function:
       •     Outsourced global procurement model: The firm
         delegates the procurement to an international buying or
         purchasing agent responsible for the whole
         procurement function
       •       Internal central purchasing model: A central
         department with its own offices located in the major
         sourcing countries centralizes the purchase; the
         purchasing division acts like an independent purchasing
         agent
       •     Distributed procurement model: Each production
         centre in charge of a product or component takes care
         of its own procurement based on centrally defined
         product specifications; applicable when there is local
         content requirement or when a subsidiary has complete
         responsibility for a product
    c Electronic sourcing
        •   EDI: proprietary software which links corporations to
          their suppliers and permits exchange of information,
          automatic ordering and tracking of orders
        • E-procurement: procurement on the internet:
             —       Types of e-procurement sites:
                 ○     Horizontal marketplace (aggregators) specializes
                      in one category of product/service for all types of
                      industries
                 ○       Vertical marketplace specializes in one type of
                      industry offering a ‘one-stop shop’ for a large
                      variety of products/services
                 ○       Exchanges organize spot markets between a
                      large number of suppliers and a large number of
                      buyers for certain types of commodity
             — Transactions can be one-to-one or made through
             reverse auctions
        — Provides reach and rich capabilities, opportunity to
             reach a larger number of suppliers than more
             traditional methods
        — Does not eliminate the need for the physical
             movement of goods
7   Global logistics
    a   Allocation function:
        •     Which products, what quantity, when and where
        •     Five major parameters:
             — Demand for the product
             — Degree of specialization
             — Capacity of production
             — Level of acceptable inventories
             — Estimated transportation time
    b       Distribution function:
        •     Selection of channels to be used in the chain
        •     Three major types of centre:
            — Factory warehouse: organizes grouping and supply
            of distribution centres and handling of large orders
         — Distribution centres: responsible for proximity
            storage/supply to dealers
         — Advanced inventory: dedicated to original
            equipment manufacturing that can be located in a
            factory
    c   Transportation function:
        • Handles physical flow
        • Three modes of transport:
         — Own fleet
         — Rented trucking services
         — Messenger services
        • Two delivery modes:
         — Proximity zone (two deliveries a day)
         — Shipment zone (one delivery a day)
8   International infrastructure projects
    a    Various players – project managers, civil contractors,
      service providers, local suppliers, customers, government,
      financing institutions, operator and international institutions
    b Phases:
            —   Pre-feasibility
            —   Feasibility
            —   Basic engineering
            —   Detailed engineering/tendering
            —   Expediting/site construction
            —   Training
            —   Start-up
            —   Operation
   c   Configuration of project management:
       •Direct project management:
       — Customer fulfils role of project manager
       — If engineering firm supervises and manages the
           work, engineering project team is financially
           responsible for the amount of its fees
     • Turnkey project:
       — Customer contracts whole project to specialized
           engineering firm or to consortium of equipment
           suppliers
       — Project manager:
          ○     Is responsible for completion at fixed price and
             delivery time
          ○   Hands over project to customer after the start-up
             phase
     • BOT (Build, Operate and Transfer):
       — Has ‘hostage risk’, i.e. once infrastructure is set up,
           supplier has no bargaining power
       — Project manager:
          ○   Is in charge of construction and operation
          ○   Is responsible for output
          ○   Is paid on basis of a predetermined price per unit
             of output
     • BOT variants include:
       — BOO (Build, Operate and Own): project manager
           keeps ownership
       — ROT (Refurbish, Operate and Transfer): similar to
           BOT but refurbishing old installations
9 The internet is a global network connecting millions of
  computers across the world
   a   The digital revolution
    •Affects the way companies do business by cutting cost
    and getting closer to customers
  •     Digital platforms transform the ways consumers
    exchange information, buy products and services and
    pay for their purchases
b Internet players:
    • Traditional companies ‘old economy’ or ‘bricks and
    mortar’
  • ‘Pure plays’ or ‘dotcom companies’
c E-commerce companies
d       Intermediaries
e   Portals and browsers
    •          Traditional   companies    providing   physical
      products/services
f   Transactions:
    •    Commercial transactions external to the firms: e-
     commerce (selling), e-procurement (buying)
  • External relational transactions other than buying and
     selling: e-partnering (coordinating, information-sharing,
     R&D with partners etc.)
  •        Internal relations: e-management (planning and
     control,    database sharing,        recruiting, training,
     administration etc.)
g        The internet constitutes an additional driver to
  globalization thanks to its reach and richness capabilities:
  •      Reach is the ability to access a large number of
     people in real time owing to a standard platform and
     connectivity
  •       Richness is the ability to carry a high level of
     information in the form of text, video and voice
   h     Standardized and semi-customized products benefit most
       from internet transactions
   i    The internet:
       •   Increases globalization of markets
       •   Increases global costs reduction
       •   Fosters global competition
       • Weakens governments’ barriers to open trade
   j   Limitations to the globalization of the internet:
     • Cross-border regulatory restrictions
     • Local legislation
     • Sociotechnical/cultural factors
k Provides a management tool that enhances global cross-
  border management capabilities:
     • Partnering capabilities
     • A ‘no secret’ management system
     • Ability to make important decisions in ‘real time’
     •     Ability to collect and consolidate feedback from
       customers
     • Ability to develop an IT platform and telecoms network
       that can work in a seamless way
     •     Ability to rethink completely managerial systems,
       structures and cultures
  l Web 2.0 allows the development of
       • Industry 4.0 and smart factories give the possibility of
      autonomous robots and machines communicating with
      each other
    •       Traditional linear supply chains are replaced by
      integrated supply chains
   m Cultural differences can restrain internet capabilities: the
    challenge for the global firm is to overcome those cultural
       differences among their employees, suppliers, customers
       and partners to make web transactions effective.

Learning assignments
1    Compare Singapore and Malaysia as a possible location for:
    1) a PC assembly plant; 2) a semiconductor wafer factory; 3)
    a regional maintenance centre; 4) a customer training centre
    for international customers; 5) a chemical processing plant.
2    According to Ferdows (1997), what are the differences
    between a ‘contributor’ factory and an ‘outpost’ factory?
3    What are the new roles that De Meyer and Vereecke (1995)
    assign to ‘foreign’ factories?
4    What differentiates global manufacturing of goods from
    global production of services?
5    What are the three major functions of global logistics?
6  From the viewpoint of the client of an infrastructure project,
  compare the relative advantages and disadvantages of
  turnkey projects, direct project management and BOT.
7 What is the ‘hostage’ problem in BOT contracts?
8  Based on your personal experience, give concrete examples
  of the reach and richness capabilities of the internet.
9 Why do you think business-to-consumer (B2C) transactions
  are less likely to develop on the internet, both domestically
  and globally?
10 Do you know of any other cases similar to Airbnb’s and
  Uber’s problems with local government? What are the pros
  and cons of government regulation of internet platforms?
11 What do you think are the benefits and constraints of global
   e-learning platforms (education programmes offered through
   the internet)?
12 eBay is a virtual auctioneer. How do you think it can globalize
  its activities?
13 What new capabilities does 3D printing bring to global firms?
14 What is a smart factory?
15 Can you give examples of ‘internet of things’ in 1) medicine,
  2) retailing, 3) a private home?

Key words
•   Back office
•   BOT (Build, Operate and Transfer)
•   Distribution function
•   Electronic data interchange (EDI)
•   Electronic marketplaces
•   Front office
•   Internet of things
•   Location
•   Logistics
•   Network architecture
•   Plant competencies
•   Procurement
•   Smart factory
•   Strategic role
•   Turnkey project
•   Web 2.0

Web resources
Global manufacturing index published by Deloitte Consulting:
https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/global/Docu
ments/Manufacturing/gx-mfg-competitiveness-index-rank-
by-country.pdf
IT data information:
http://www.gartner.com/technology/home.jsp
Social Media Landscape:
https://fredcavazza.net/2017/04/19/social-media-landscape-
2017/



     Companion website

     Visit the companion website at bloomsbury.pub/global-
     strategic-management-5e for a multitude of weblinks and
     resources, self-test questions for revision and appendices.


Notes
1   Milberg and Winkler (2009) and OECD (2007).
2   OECD (2010).
3   Kearney (2015).
4   Teboul (1991).
5   St George and Knoop (1998).
6   Rangan (1998).
7   Wells and Gleason (1995).
8   Wells et al. (1996).
9   McKinsey (2016).
10  Monteiro and Carrick (2019).
11 https://www.statista.com/topics/871/online-shop-ping/ (accessed 1 February 2022).
12  https://www.statista.com/statistics/330695/number-of-smartphone-users-worldwide/
   (accessed 1 February 2022).
13 UNCTAD (2019).
14 https://www.statista.com/statistics/330695/number-of-smartphone-users-worldwide/
   accessed 10 February 2021).
15       https://www.statista.com/statistics/264810/number-of-monthly-active-facebook-
   users-world-wide/ (accessed 1 February 2022).
16         https://wearesocial.com/uk/blog/2022/01/digital-2022-another-year-of-bumper-
   growth-2/.
17 Evans and Wurster (2000).
18             https://unctad.org/system/files/official-document/dtlstict2020d13_en_0.pdf
   (accessed 12 may 2022).
19 Yip (2000).
20 Mc Kinsey (2009).
21 Coleman et al.(2001), Porter (2001), Subramanian and Adner (2001).
22 Bughin et al. (2009).
23 https://www.stratosjets.com/blog/airbnb-statistics/ (accessed 12 May 2022).
24 Salomon, (2016).


References and further reading
Awate, S., Mudambi, R., Scalera, V. G. and Schotter, A. (2018) ‘On the geography of
  emerging industry technological networks: the breadth and depth of patented
  innovations’, Journal of Economic Geography, 18 (2): 391–419.
Bartmess, A. and Cerny, K. (1993) ‘Seeding plants for a global harvest’, McKinsey
  Quarterly, 2: 107–32.
Borcuch, A., Pilat-Borcuch, M. and Swierczynska-Kaczor, U. (2012) ‘The influence of
  the internet on globalization process’, Journal of Economics and Business Research,
  XVIII (1): 118–29.
Bughin, J., Chui, M. and Miller, A. (2009) ‘How companies are benefitting from Web 2.0:
  McKinsey Global Survey results’, McKinsey Quarterly, September.
Coltman, T., Devinney, T., Latukefu, A. and Midgley, D. (2001) ‘Revolution, evolution, or
  hype?’, California Management Review, 44 (1) 57–86.
De Meyer, A. and Vereecke, A. (1994) ‘Strategies for international manufacturing’,
  INSEAD Working Paper, 94/25.
Dornier, P. P. (1997) ‘Michelin’, ESSEC Case Study.
Ernst, R., Kawelis, P., Dornier, P. P. and Fender, M. Cases (New York, NY: John Wiley).
  (1998) Global Operations and Logistics: Text and
Ernst & Young (1992) ‘Region of the new Europe: a comparative assessment of key
  factors in choosing location’, Report.
Evans, P. and Wurster, T. (2000) Blown to Bits (Boston, MA: Harvard Business School
  Press).
Ferdows, K. (1997) ‘Making the most of foreign factories’, Harvard Business Review, 75
  (2): 73–88.
Gereffi, G. (2020) ‘What does the COVID-19 pandemic teach us about global value
  chains? The case of medical supplies’, Journal of International Business Policy, 3 (3):
  287–301.
Haigh, R. (1990) ‘Selecting a US plant location: the management decision process in
  foreign companies’, Columbia Journal of World Business, 25 (3): 22–31.
Kearney (2015) US Reshoring Over Before it Began?.
  https://www.atkearney.com/documents/10192/7070019/US+Reshoring.pdf/14777afa-
  0c14-460e-937b-11233be340b6 (accessed 21 June 2017).
Kiss, A. and Danis, W. (2008) ‘Country institutional context, social networks, and new
  venture internationalization speed’, European Management Journal, 26 (6): 388–99.
Kotabe, M. (1998) ‘Efficiency vs effectiveness orientation of global sourcing strategy: a
  comparison of US and Japanese multinational companies’, The Academy of
  Management Executive, November, 107–19.
Lindner, A., Cave, B., Deloumeaux, L. and Magdeleine, J. (2001) Trade in Goods and
   Services: Statistical Trends and Measurement Challenges, Statistics Brief, October,
   No. 1. www.oecd.org/std/statistics-brief (accessed 21 June 2017).
McKinsey (2009) ‘How companies are benefiting from Web 2.0: global survey results’,
   McKinsey Quarterly, September, 1–9.
McKinsey & Company (2016) Digital Globalization: The New Era of Global Flows,
   McKinsey Global Institute, March.
McWilliam, S. E., Kim, J. K., Mudambi, R. and Nielsen, B. B. (2019) ‘Global value chain
   governance: intersections with international business’, Journal of World Business, 55
   (4): 101067.
Milberg, W. and Winkler, D. (2009) Globalization, Offshoring and Economic Insecurity in
   Industrialized Countries, DESA working paper, no. 87 (New York, NY: United Nations).
Miniwatts Marketing Group (n.d.) ‘Internet world stats – usage and population statistics’.
   https://www.internetworldstats.com/usage/use007.htm (accessed 21 June 2017).
Monteiro, L. F. and Carrick, A. M. (2019) ‘Digital transformation in Latin America:
   leapfrogging and social impact’, INSEAD Case Study.
   https://publishing.insead.edu/case/digital-transformation-latin-america-leapfrogging-
   and-social-impact (accessed 1 February 2022).
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (2007) Offshoring
   and Employment: Trends and Impacts (Paris: OECD).
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (2010) Measuring
   Globalisation: Economic Globalisation Indicators (Paris: OECD).
Pananond, P., Gereffi, G. and Pedersen, T. (2020) ‘An integrative typology of global
   strategy and global value chains: the management and organization of cross-border
   activities’, Global Strategy Journal, 10 (3): 421–43.
Pélissié Du Rausas, M., Manyika, J., Hazan, E., Bughin, J., Chui, M. and Said, R. (2011)
   ‘Internet matters: the Net’s sweeping impact on growth, jobs, and prosperity’,
   McKinsey Global Institute, McKinsey & Company.
   http://www.mckinsey.com/Insights/MGI (accessed 21 June 2017).
Porter, M. (2001) ‘Strategy and the internet’, Harvard Business Review, 79 (3): 63–78.
PwC (2016) Strategy and Analysis, ‘Industry 4.0: building the Digital Enterprise 2016’,
   Global Industry 4.0 Survey. https://www.pwc.ch/en/publications/2017/how-digitization-
   makes-the-supply-chain-more-efficient-pwc-2016.pdf (accessed 1 February 2022).
Rangan, K. (1998) ‘FreeMarketsOnline’, Harvard Business School Case Study 9598109.
Salomon, R. (2016) ‘The real reason Uber is losing in China’, 7 March.
   https://fortune.com/2016/03/07/uber-china-2/ (accessed 1 February 2022).
Sasi, V. and Arenius, P. (2008) ‘International new ventures and social networks:
   advantage or liabil-ity?’, European Management Journal, 26 (6): 400–11.
Schwab, K. (2017) ‘The fourth Industrial Revolution’, The World Economic Forum.
Skype (2005) ‘eBay to acquire Skype’, Skype Press Release, 12 September.
   http://about.skype.com/2005/09/ebay_to_acquire_skype.html (accessed 21 June
   2017).
St George, A. and Knoop, C. (1998) ‘Li & Fung: beyond filling in the mosaic, 1995–1998’,
   Harvard Business School Case Study 9398092.
Subramanian, R. and Adner, R. (2001) ‘Profits and the internet: seven misconceptions’,
   MIT Sloan Management Review, Summer: 44–53.
Teboul, J. (1991) Managing Quality Dynamics (Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall).
UNCTAD (2016) ‘In search of cross-border e-commerce trade data’, UCTZD technical
   note for ITC Development no. 6, April.
UNCTAD Digital Economy Report (2019).
   https://unctad.org/en/PublicationsLibrary/der2019_en.pdf (accessed 1 February
   2022).
Wells, L. T. and Gleason, E. S. (1995) ‘Is foreign infrastructure investment still risky?’,
   Harvard Business Review, 73 (5): 44–55.
Wells, L. T., Bhasin, A., Desai, M. and Srinivasan, S. (1996) ‘Enron Development
   Corporation: the Dabhol Power Project in Maharashtra, India’ (A), (B) and (C), Harvard
   Business School Case Studies 9-797-085 and 9-595-101.
WTO (World Trade Organization) (2015) International Trade Statistics 2015.
   https://www.wto.org/english/res_e/statis_e/its2015_e/its15_toc_e.htm (accessed 6
   July 2017).
Yip, G. (2000) ‘Global strategy in the internet era’, London Business School Review, 11
   (4): 1–14.
Chapter 11

Global innovation




 At the end of the chapter you will be able to:

 •     Understand the logic and the limitations of the international
     product life cycle
 •    Appreciate the different designs of global R&D networks
 •      Recognize the different management issues in the global
     management of R&D
 •    Discuss the issues of the international transfer of technology
 •    Understand knowledge management
 •       Explain the recent development towards ‘metanational’
     management of global knowledge creation
 •    Examine the latest developments on global open innovation
 •         Recognize the issues in the international protection of
     intellectual property



Introduction
The ability to create and quickly diffuse new products and processes
is one of the main benefits of global management, as noted in
Chapters 1 and 14. This chapter will look at the evolution of the
management of innovation within multinational and global companies. It
starts with a presentation and criticism of the classic model known as
the international product life cycle, then examines the classic trade-off
between centralized and distributed R&D using the case of Nestlé as
an example. The issues involved in the international transfer of
technology will then be discussed and the chapter will end by
presenting a recent model of knowledge management and transfer of
best practices within global firms, introducing the concept of global
open innovation and examining the problems of intellectual property
rights.

The international product life cycle model
In the 1960s, Raymond Vernon proposed the theory of the
international product life cycle1 to explain how product innovation and
production could migrate from the country of origin of the innovative
firm to other country subsidiaries (Figure 11.1).
   The international product life cycle theory was built on observations
of the TV set industry in the 1950s and 1960s. As shown in Figure
11.1, the theory identifies three stages in the international
development of products and processes. In stage one, new products
and processes are designed in the laboratories of firms located in the
innovative country. In the 1950s TV set industry, the innovative country
was the United States. RCA, Zenith, General Electric and Motorola
were the innovators and, at this stage, the products were designed in
the United States for the US market. Some production was exported,
mainly to Europe. In stage two (1960s), some production was moved
to industrialized countries such as Europe and Japan, either in the
form of local subsidiaries of the innovative firms or through technology
transfer to local firms (Matsushita, Sony, Thomson etc.). Some
adaptations to fit local needs were made to the products. Finally, in
stage three, emerging developing countries (South Korea, China)
took the lead in the production of TV sets, because of cost
advantages and market potential.




Figure 11.1 The international product life cycle
Source: Authors’ original figure based on text of Vernon (1966).


Criticism of the international product life cycle

In spite of its simplicity and appeal, the theory failed to explain the
globalization of innovation that took place after the 1960s. Despite the
fact that R&D resources are predominantly concentrated in developed,
industrialized countries, there is no longer a major difference between
the United States, Japan and Europe (see Table 11.1).
Table 11.1 R&D capabilities, 2000 and 2018




Source: World Bank Development Indicators (2018) http://data.worldbank.org/data-
catalog/world-development-indicators (accessed 1 February 2022) and UNESCO.

  Today, a large variety of products are developed globally for world
markets and launched at almost the same time in the key regions of
America, Europe and Asia Pacific. The migration of R&D and
production centres does not necessarily follow the sequential evolution
predicted by the theory. Many research centres are set up where
scientific and marketing resources are available, and global companies
use global R&D networks to develop world products, as Example 11.1
illustrates.
Table 11.2 Top ten R&D spenders as % of GDP


 Position          Country                                         % of GDP
 1                 Korea                                               4.3

 2                 Japan                                               3.4

 3                 Finland                                             3.2

 4                 Switzerland                                         3.2

 5                 Austria                                             3.1

 6                 Sweden                                              3.1

 7                 Denmark                                             2.9

 8                 Germany                                             2.9

 9                 USA                                                 2.7

 10                Slovenia                                            2.4


Source: http://uis.unesco.org/apps/visualisations/research-and-development-spending/
(accessed 1 February 2021).


Global R&D networks
Most large global innovators use distributed R&D labs involving the
collaboration of multiple sites scattered around the world. In 2020
R&D expenditure amounted to $1.7 trillion with ten countries
representing 80 per cent of the spend.2 According to UNESCO Korea
and Japan had the the highest R&D intensity, at 4.3 per cent and 3.4
per cent of GDP, respectively.3
Table 11.3 Total R&D spend US$PPP (purchasing power parity)


 Position          Country                                           US$ bn
 1                 USA                                                 476

 2                 China                                               372

 3                 Japan                                               170

 4                 Germany                                             110

 5                 Korea                                                73

 6                 France                                               61

 7                 India                                                52

 8                 UK                                                   44

 9                 Brazil                                               42

 10                Russia                                               40


Source: http://uis.unesco.org/apps/visualisations/research-and-development-spending/
(accessed 1 February 2021).
EXAMPLE 11.1 Nestlé – a global network

Nestlé is the leading nutrition, health and wellness company in the
world. Its portfolio of around 2,000 brands encompasses a large array
of products including leading brands such as Nescafé, Perrier, Maggi,
Gerber and Nespresso. A Swiss multinational, Nestlé was one of the
first to expand its operations worldwide. With its R&D expenditure in
2019 of CHF1.7 billion it operates the world’s largest science and
innovation network in the food and beverage industry. More than 3,900
employees working at 23 locations worldwide in R&D in four
Fundamental Research Centres plus 31 Product Technology Centres
and other R&D Centres, and 280 product application groups which
adapt product ideas to local markets. See Figure 11.2 below.




Figure 11.2 Nestlé’s global R&D architecture
Source: Authors’ original figure based on data from www.nestle.com.

  The four fundamental research centres are: the Nestlé Institute of
Health Sciences, which deals with biomedical research and science-
based nutrition; the Nestlé Research Centre, which provides scientific
knowledge and a research base for product renovation and innovation;
the Clinical Development Unit, which provides medical expertise and
manages worldwide clinical trials for the company; and the R&D
Centre in Tours, France, which provides scientific expertise in plant
science. The central research entity is supported by the plant science
research hub in Tours, France, the Singapore Research Hub, which
focuses on maternal and infant nutrition, and Nestlé Purina, which
carries out petcare research in St Louis, Missouri, United States.
   The Product Technology Centres provide a critical mass of
technology expertise and product knowledge, for one or more of
Nestlé’s business categories. R&D centres have both a global role and
a more local role by meeting regional needs or providing know-how in
specific areas of technical expertise, such as system technology, and
health sciences. To complement its internal capabilities, Nestlé works
closely with a number of academic institutions and public
organizations. The company launched the Nestlé R&D Accelerator at
Nestlé Research in Lausanne, Switzerland to unite Nestlé scientists,
students and start-ups to accelerate the development of innovative
products and systems. Participants have full access to Nestlé’s R&D
expertise and infrastructure, with teams moving from idea to working
prototype and shop test within six months. The company will extend
this initiative to other R&D sites and categories, with its Lausanne site
focused on cross-category and beyond-the-core innovation.


Globalization of R&D: benefits and constraints
As illustrated in the Nestlé example, a global R&D network involves a
decentralized, distributed approach to the management of innovation.

Benefits

There are four main potential benefits of decentralized as opposed to
centrally managed R&D:4

•   Proximity to market – the ability of a global firm to adapt or to
  create products that fit local customers’ specificities.
•    Access to geographical clusters of knowledge creation and
  development – universities, suppliers, researchers, start-up firms,
  venture capitalists. Michael Porter (1998) has illustrated the
  concept of technological centres as clusters of excellence such as
  Insulin in Denmark. Doz and Wilson argue that the more complex
  the type of knowledge needed, the more beneficial it is to have a
  geographically distributed network because of the richness of
  competencies that can be captured. 5
• Learning – the ability of a global firm to leverage local knowledge
  across subsidiaries and to cross-fertilize this knowledge within a
  global network. De Meyer (1992) pinpointed the importance of
  ‘learning’ in international R&D: learning about different markets,
  different problem-solving methods, different sources of
  technological progress, different cultures and different competitors.
  Also, rapid diffusion of that learning throughout the organization is
  definitely enhanced by creating an international network of
  laboratories.
•    Access to low-cost and good-quality scientists and engineers –
  some empirical evidence for this benefit is apparent when we look
  at the development of Bangalore as a centre for computer software
  or the science parks of Singapore, or Taiwan (Hinshu), which were
  developed originally on that basis. However, except for routine
  activities, this benefit is not sufficient to justify a decentralized R&D
  network.

Constraints

There are also two major constraints in implementing a globally
distributed R&D network: the loss of critical mass and of face-to-face
communication:

•     Critical mass constraints exist when one activity needs to mobilize
    a minimum amount of resources in order to be performed efficiently
    and effectively. Research activities belong to this category –
    scientists and technologists are not lonely inventors; they need to
    benefit from the complementarities of colleagues in their field as
    well as in related domains. They also need assistance from
    technical staff, and they use more and more expensive laboratory
    instruments. Below a certain threshold of such resources, research
    projects have difficulty in taking off, hence the need for
    centralization and concentration of R&D activities. Having too many
    laboratories dilutes resources and hampers research performance.
    The solution to the problem is to be found in the creation of centres
    of excellence, specializing in one type of technological
    development, where scientific resources for that particular type of
    research are concentrated. Paradoxically, centres of excellence
    may solve the critical-mass problem, but do not particularly favour
    the internationalization of research activities concentrated in one
    location.
•     Communication constraints result from the overwhelming evidence
    that     innovative   activities  require   face-to-face    informal
                     6
    communication. Innovation is based on a combination of well-
    defined methodological procedures as well as ill-defined, tacit,
    intuitive intellectual processes, personal encounters and
    conversations among researchers. Geographical distance, despite
    all information and communication technologies such as video-
    conferencing, is less conducive to inductive, intuitive and more
    complex and abstract discoveries. These communication constraints
    militate in favour of co-located research, where research projects
    are self-contained within a single geographical location in order to
    minimize communication between units and maximize it within units.

In total, the benefits of a distributed network of innovative centres
outweigh the costs as more and more global companies decentralize
their R&D networks. However, some research seems to indicate that
there is a kind of inverse U-shaped relationship between the
dispersion of R&D sites and the quality of innovation,7 such that the
quality of innovation tends to decline when R&D activities are too
widely distributed.

Design of global R&D networks

Research centres in a global network belong to four main types:8
•    Research laboratories in charge of long projects dealing with new
    technologies or scientific discoveries that are not necessarily
    related to a particular product. These laboratories are global by
    nature, and are most often, but not always, located near the
    corporate centre.
•  Development laboratories in charge of projects whose objective is
  to lead to a product or process innovation.
•      Supporting/adaptive units that provide product or process
  adaptation according to local contexts.
•      Scanning units whose mandate is to monitor technological
  development and contribute to the knowledge platform of the
  company.

The way these units are set up and organized depends upon the
global evolution of the firm over time, which usually follows the pattern
shown in Figure 11.3.




Figure 11.3 Evolution over time of global R&D activities

   When the company is past the stage of central R&D activities, local
laboratories are set up in order to adapt local products or processes.
In the next stage, centres of excellence that can specialize in basic
research or certain products or process applications are established in
innovative resource-rich countries. A networked organization is
established to organize the exchange of ideas, technologies, people
and information. As described in Example 11.1, Nestlé has reached
this stage.

Management of global R&D networks
The management of global R&D or innovative networks requires
adaptation in structure, systems and people/culture.

Structure

The structural aspects of R&D management relate to size,
specialization, project organization and performance evaluation:

•      Size: Research demands communication and flexibility. Large
    organizations are unsuitable to provide a proper innovative
    environment. In their research, Pearce and Singh (1992) found that
    50 per cent of international laboratories employed fewer than 50
    people and 80 per cent fewer than 200 people. In the case of
    Nestlé, the size of laboratories was between 20 and 200
    employees. When a research site employs a larger number of
    scientists and technicians, it is usually divided into smaller, self-
    contained specialized units.
•       Specialization: Specialization can be discipline-centred or
  product-/process-centred. The first case applies more to
  preliminary research, while the second fits more with development
  work where multi-disciplinary teams work on the many facets of
  product design, utilization, marketability and production.
•   Project organization: The most common arrangement for R&D is
  the project management structure, in which a project leader is
  responsible for the planning, budgeting, control and completion of a
  particular development. Projects can be managed purely locally and
  then transferred to other units in the global network (projects are
  co-located), or can be organized by interdependent tasks
  distributed across units (multiple-location projects). As previously
  mentioned, co-located projects are likely to be more effective
     because of the communication constraints examined earlier, but co-
     location does not take advantage of the richness of a global
     network.
•        Performance evaluation: Performance evaluation mechanisms
     may take various forms, depending upon the kind of performance
     that the company wishes to enhance. Table 11.4 gives some
     indication of the various methods according to the performance-
     enhancement objective.
Table 11.4 Performance evaluation criteria


    Performance                   Measurement
                                  Number of patents
    Scientific innovation
                                  Number of publications in research journals

    Commercialization             Time to market

    Profitability                 Research unit as profit centre

    Cost                          Budgeting targets

                                  Organization of conferences and internal
                                  seminars
    Collaboration
                                  Internal presentation of papers

                                  Number of publications listed on the intranet


•    Project management design within a global network can be
  categorized into:
•    Self-contained co-located independent projects, in which one
  research unit in the network is responsible for the complete design
    and development of a product/process. In this case, the
    communication flow between engineers, technicians, marketers and
    manufacturers is entirely limited to the research unit located on one
    site in the network. On completion of the project, the product or
    process is transferred to other units. In the case of manufacturing
    an engine, a particular unit would be responsible for the whole
    design of a certain type of engine.
•   Integrated distributed projects, in which several research centres
  each take responsibility for one different interrelated element in the
  design and creation of the product/process. For example, one
  centre will take care of the combustion chamber of an engine, while
  another will design the regulation. In such a case, inter-unit
  communication is maximized because researchers will have to
  exchange a lot of information to make the different parts fit
  together.
•     Parallel distributed projects, in which a project is still divided
  between several units but in such a way that inter-unit
  communication is limited to only a few parameters. In the case of
  the engine, one unit would be responsible for the combustion
  chamber including the regulation, while another would take charge
  of the compressor system. There would still be some
  interdependencies to manage, but fewer than in the previous case.

The Global Innovation Index
One of the central drivers for economic growth and development is
widely considered to be innovation. In 2007, the Global Innovation
Index (GII) was created to provide insightful data on innovation that
could help economies evaluate their innovation performance and make
informed innovation policies. The GII has had an impact on
policymakers who refer to innovation and innovation rankings as part
of their economic policy strategies. It also allows economies to assess
their innovation performance and invest in resources to analyse their
GII results in cross-ministerial task forces. GII can be used to design
suitable innovation and intellectual property (IP) policies encouraging
economies to prioritize and collect innovation metrics.




Figure 11.4 Global Innovation Index (GII) Framework
Source: Dutta, Lanvin and Wunsch-Vincent (2020).

   The GII is an evolving project that builds on previous editions while
incorporating data – inspired by the latest research on the
measurement of innovation. In 2020 the model included 131 countries/
economies, representing 93.5 per cent of the world’s population and
97.4 per cent of the world’s GDP in purchasing power parity current
international dollars. Table 11.5 below shows the top 20 countries in
the GII 2021 ranking.
Table 11.5 Global Innovation Index top 20 countries


 The Global Innovation Index top 20 countries 2021 report
 1    Switzerland
 2    Singapore
 3    The United States
 4    Denmark
 5    Sweden
    6    The Netherlands
    7    Finland
    8    Luxembourg
    9    Norway
    10    Iceland
    11   Australia
    12   United Kingdom
    13   Canada
    14   Germany
    15   New Zealand
    16   Ireland
    17   Belgium
    18   Austria
    19   France
    20   Japan

Source: INSEAD Knowledge, October 2021.


Systems
The effective management of a global R&D network calls for the
implementation of systems and processes for planning and control
and knowledge documentation and dissemination:

•      Planning and control systems consist of the orderly definition of
     research projects and their distribution across units, the allocation
     of resources to the projects and the control of resources utilization
     alongside the monitoring of project achievements. Project definition
     and attribution is generally done by a global central unit like that
     described for Nestlé in Example 11.1, on the basis of the overall
     project management philosophy described earlier. Project proposals
  are initiated either by the research units within the framework of
  their mandate or decided centrally and then delegated by the
  central coordination unit. Global product managers can initiate
  projects based on the assessment of market needs. An important
  consideration in the budgeting of research projects is to give
  research centres some ‘free budgets’, consisting of unallocated
  resources that can be used at the discretion of the unit head for
  contingencies or for the exploration of new unplanned investigations.
      The degree of standardization of the planning system is a
   function of the nature of the research project. More fundamentally,
   advanced research programmes are given a ‘budgeting envelope’
   without asking for too detailed a justification, while more applied,
   business-specific projects may require cash flow forecasts similar
   to any strategic investment.
      Planning processes are not only useful for resource allocation
   but also as a communication mechanism. Planning can be linked
   with scientific conferences, during which various laboratories
   present their projects before the actual planning and budgeting
   exercise begins.9
      Controls are exercised through internal reporting, measuring
    progress against technical and commercial milestones.
• Knowledge diffusion and documentation. Knowledge management
  is not limited to R&D, and the next section of the chapter considers
  this in more detail. For global R&D, knowledge diffusion and
  documentation are based on six main mechanisms or a combination
  of them:
 — People rotation
 — Conferencing
 — Databases
 — Publications
 —    Personal networking
 —    Electronic knowledge management platforms.
Research has shown that global companies tend to use a portfolio of
mechanisms, usually coordinated by a central staff office.

People and culture

There are four people-related practices that are particularly conducive
to global R&D:10

•   Temporary assignments as a way for researchers to be familiar
  with the work of other laboratories and sometimes to be assigned
  to a marketing team. Training programmes, regular travel and
  conferences allow interpersonal exchanges and the inculcation of
  socialization and an ‘open’ culture of sharing.
• Creation of ‘gatekeeper’ roles in each laboratory, where the task is
  to translate the work from other laboratories into the language of
  the gatekeeper’s own laboratory.
• Creation of a small central staff whose role is to ensure a proper
  diffusion of information and research results.
• Promoting openness and sharing as important corporate values.


International transfer of technology
Every component of globalization implies some process of technology
transfer. During the 1960s and 1970s, international technology transfer
was considered a critical issue because of the emergence of newly
independent countries that aspired to industrialize and demanded an
appropriate and complete transfer of technologies from multinational
corporations. With the increased liberalization of economies, this topic
has lost its geopolitical connotations but remains a managerial issue
when dealing with the developing or emerging world.
   Table 11.6 gives a classification of the various forms of technology
that can be transferred. Technology transfer takes place under five
main organizational and contractual forms:
•  Licensing agreements
•  Projects (turnkey projects, BOT, etc.)
•     Technical agreements with joint venture companies or local
  subsidiaries
• Joint projects
• Sales of equipment.
Table 11.6 Classification of technology


                              Physical               Informational
    Product                   •  Blueprints          •    Product
    technology                •  Formulation             development
                              •  Pictures, design        methodologies
                              •  Models              •    Research
                              •  Samples                 heuristics
                              •  Laboratory          •    Creative methods
                                equipment            •    Testing methods
                              • Databases            •    Data-mining
                                                         research protocols
    Process                   •    Plant layouts     •  Process control
    technology                •    Equipment         •  Quality assurance
                              •    Process charts    •  Maintenance
                              •    Process             processes
                                  handbooks          • Logistics and
                                                       supply chain
    Management                •  Handbooks           •  Marketing
    technology                •  Flow charts           management
                              •  Manuals             • Financial
                              •  IT equipment          management
                              •  Accounting          • Strategic planning
                                documents            • Human Resource
                              • Planning templates     Management
                                                       (HRM)
                                                 •    Project
                                                     management

   The typical issues in technology transfer are appropriateness and
completeness. Technology transfer is appropriate if it fits with the
local context. The classic trade-off is between modern, state-of-the-
art technology that requires a solid infrastructure of human capital as
well as support industries and a more modest, less advanced
technology that can be more easily assimilated locally. Global
companies have often been blamed for transferring old and obsolete
technology in order to protect their competitive advantage, but on the
other hand many cases of expensive, advanced technology – the
‘white elephants’ – have also been criticized as resource-wasting. At
the time when Volkswagen set up the first Western factory of modern
cars (the Santana) in China in the early 1980s, it would have been
difficult to transfer the new models being manufactured and sold in
Europe. The state of the roads, the network of available suppliers, the
volume involved and the skill level could not have permitted the
assimilation of such complex, advanced manufacturing systems. But,
over time, the progressive improvement of local conditions made the
transfer of modern technology feasible. SAIC, Volkswagen’s Chinese
partner, later entered a joint venture with General Motors to produce a
more advanced model than the Santana with more sophisticated
production technology.
   A technology transfer is complete when the recipient of technology
is able to perform by itself the product of the transfer. This raises the
issue of the transfer of informational technology. The knowledge
embodied in those elements is often non-explicit and calls for a
‘coaching approach’ to the transfer, instead of just shipping equipment
or organizing a standard lecture.11 Developing countries often regret
that global companies restrict their transfer to physical content and
limit information transfer to a strict minimum in order to maintain their
future bargaining power. Although this interpretation is often too
extreme, it is frequently true that engineers in global firms are not fully
prepared to cope with the considerations of education and patience
that a proper transfer implies.

Global knowledge management
Knowledge is the ability to understand and give meaning to facts and
information. In the corporate world, knowledge applies not only to
techniques and physical sciences, but to all aspects of corporate
behaviour. Knowledge management consists of the ability for a firm
to create, combine and share knowledge among its members. Global
R&D management is only one sub-set of knowledge-based strategies.
Beyond the strict management of R&D, the strengths of global
companies are their capability to create, combine and share
knowledge across borders. According to the Japanese social
scientists Nonaka and Takeuchi (1995), knowledge can be created
and shared at the individual, group and organizational level. They
distinguish between explicit knowledge (i.e. knowledge that can be
codified and explained verbally, in writing or with symbolic language)
and tacit knowledge (that cannot be codified and that can be
transferred only by imitation or observation, by ‘teaching’). They
distinguish four types of knowledge conversion:

•    Socialization – the process of sharing tacit knowledge through
  social interaction, apprenticeship and observation.
•   Externalization – the process of articulating tacit knowledge into
  explicit concepts through metaphors, pictures and theoretical
  formulations.
•     Combination – the process of combining different elements of
  explicit knowledge into written, codified formats.
•    Internalization – the process of transforming explicit knowledge
  into tacit knowledge; when knowledge is internalized it becomes
  part of the way of doing things and its explicitness may be lost.
According to Nonaka and Takeuchi, these four processes form a
knowledge spiral of organizational knowledge creation from individuals
to groups and then to whole organizations.
  For global companies, knowledge management creates both
opportunities and constraints (Table 11.7).
Table 11.7 Opportunities and constraints for knowledge management in global companies


 Opportunities                       Constraints
 Diversity of contexts               Languages

 Variety of experiences              Differences of cultures and mind-sets

 Economies of scope in               ‘Not invented here’ reactions
 knowledge creation
                                     Unwillingness and lack of motivation to
                                     share knowledge

                                     Incentive systems reinforcing local
                                     performance and not rewarding ‘global’
 Economies of speed by               citizenship
 not ‘reinventing the wheel’
                                     ‘Siloed’, nationalistic perspectives
                                     Lack of trust between units


Transfer of best practices

Global companies build management processes in order to overcome
the constraints and take advantage of the opportunities of knowledge
management. One such process is the ‘transfer of best practices’,
which has been documented by Szulanski (1996). Transfer of best
practices comprises the systematization of exchange of internal
practices developed in one unit and considered as ‘superior’ to other
units. ‘Practices’ are the use of knowledge applied to all kinds of
managerial activities – the running of a customer service centre, the
management of a product launch, the training of salespeople or the
control of accounts receivable. Szulanski found that three major
factors can hamper transferring practices, what he calls internal
stickiness:

•   Causal ambiguity between the various elements of the practices
  that make it difficult to model precisely cause-and-effect
  relationships. Causal ambiguity exists when tacit knowledge is at
  the core of the functioning of the practice.
•    Lack of absorptive capacity by the recipient unit which is not
  capable of interpreting the knowledge transfer and applying it. Here
  again, tacitness may constitute a barrier to knowledge transfer
  when the recipient unit has not got the internal resources to ‘crack’
  the implicit, non-verbal elements of the practices.
•    Arduous relationships that exist when tacit knowledge requires
  multiple interactions between individuals, particularly when
  geographical and cultural distance are present.

Szulanski’s work challenges the classic views about knowledge
transfer, as indicated in Table 11.8, and focuses attention on the
predominant sources of stickiness, which are closely related to the
amount of tacitness involved in knowledge.
Table 11.8 Tools and approaches used for knowledge management in the metanational
corporation


    •    Business units and team leaders trained and experienced in D&D
        (disperse and diverse) practices

    •    Socialization before teamwork implying ‘non-productive’ social
        interfaces

    •    Transitional encounters (conferences, seminars, workshops,
        etc.) with loose agenda to allow tacit knowledge to be shared
    •   Teams made aware of contexts through visits, education
    •    Strong, accessible, open, user-friendly knowledge management
        platforms (electronic libraries, case studies, chat rooms etc.)
 •     Deadlines for project completion
 •     Yellow pages staff directory (that lists who is responsible for
      what)

The metanational corporation

Doz et al. (2001a, 2001b) have developed the concept of the
‘metanational corporation’ that puts knowledge transfer at the centre
of a mode of managing global companies, beyond the classical
organizational models described later in Chapter 16. The metanational
corporation is capable of forgetting the concept of knowledge transfer
and substituting the capability of knowledge ‘melding’ (a neologism
comprising melting and welding). Melding knowledge implies that the
tacit elements of knowledge are effectively assimilated and put into
practice.



     The risk of isolated subsidiaries

     In a paper published in the journal Organization Science in 2008
     entitled, ‘Knowledge flows within multinational corporations:
     explaining subsidiary isolation and its performance implications’,
     Monteiro et al. examine if, how and when MNC subsidiaries
     shared sales and marketing knowledge with each other. The
     authors discovered a phenomenon of isolated subsidiaries that
     top management and their teams might be unaware existed.
     Executives may believe that knowledge-sharing is rampant
     throughout the organization whereas the reality could be that
     some subsidiaries are working independently, unable to take
     advantage of the intellectual resources in other parts of the
     company.
        The researchers surveyed 171 subsidiaries of which 22 per
     cent heard about new product ideas or practices from
     headquarters less than once a year, and 42 per cent sent new
  product ideas and practices to their headquarters or to other
  subsidiaries less than once a year. More than 10 per cent did
  neither.
     The authors concluded that creating personal networks among
  subsidiary managers could improve contact and collaboration to
  ensure that no part of the organization is isolated from the
  knowledge-sharing process. A network could include, for
  example, an expatriate manager who is assigned to an
  underperforming foreign subsidiary to help tap into resources in
  other parts of the company. Language barriers also needed to be
  considered: these could prevent a subsidiary’s manager from
  engaging with colleagues locally and at headquarters.
  Transparency is critical, for both the ‘in’ and ‘out’ crowd. Sharing
  information regularly about performance could address the
  reasons why subsidiaries’ perceptions tend to vary when it comes
  to knowing which of their peers are successful and which
  processes are valuable. Lastly, the MNCs should recognize that
  the market for information can be flawed – sometimes knowledge
  is shared but MNCs do not realize that some employees share a
  lot of information while others none at all.
  Source: https://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article/popularity-contests-why-a-
  company-embraces-one-innovative-idea-but-shuns-another/ (accessed 1 February
  2022).




   The metanational model is built on the interaction of two factors: the
location factor (the place where knowledge is created, shared and
melded) and the context factor (the intellectual foundations underlying
knowledge creation such as language, mental mapping, codes, implicit
rules and so on). The basic argument is that useful knowledge is
frequently tacit and that tacitness is embedded in a particular context.
Tacit knowledge creation, sharing and melding requires co-location:
the ability for the people involved to benefit from frequent interactions,
random encounters (‘corridor’ or ‘coffee shop’ interactions). This is
precisely the reason why co-location is so important in the case of
R&D projects. In global companies, locations between units can be
distant and contexts very diverse (multiplicity of language, education,
social codes and so on). The key problem for a global company is to
take advantage of the diversity and at the same time resolve the co-
location imperative. The various forms of knowledge creation, sharing
and melding are represented in Figure 11.5:

•       In the C&C (co-location and co-setting) model, knowledge is
    entirely co-located, with people sharing the same intellectual context
    transferred to other business units. This is the classic use of
    centres of excellence, in which one particular business unit is the
    creator of knowledge that becomes the ‘best practice’ to be
    transferred. This eliminates the problem of tacitness at the level of
    knowledge creation but not at the level of transfer. The issue of
    stickiness is still present.
•       In the D&C (dispersion and co-setting) model, knowledge is
    created at different locations under the leadership of ‘expatriates’
    who share the same intellectual and contextual background. They
    understand each other across cultures and they are able at the
    same time to adapt knowledge to local conditions and to share it,
    since the stickiness is reduced thanks to the common cultural
    background. This was the classic practice of multinational firms
    relying on a talented and mobile expatriate group. The problem with
    this approach is the difficulty of taking advantage of the contextual
    diversity of country units and may lead either to an inflexible
    application of ‘central’ recipes or a complete acculturation of the
    expatriate managers – the ‘going native’ syndrome.
•      The C&D (co-location and diverse settings) model tries to take
    advantage of a physical co-location of managers coming from
    various parts of the world and working on a common project. This is
    the idea behind ‘impatriation’ practices. This can lead to ‘Tower of
    Babel’ consequences because of a lack of a common contextual
    background among participants and the lack of explicit management
    of the cultural differences.
•     Finally the D&D (dispersion and diverse settings) model, the model
    of the ‘metanational’ corporation, is the one in which the creation,
    sharing and melding of knowledge in a dispersed and diverse world
    is explicitly managed. Table 11.6 lists the major organizational tools
    used for managing a D&D environment.




Figure 11.5 Knowledge creation, sharing and ‘melding’ in global firms
Source: José dos Santos, MS® Powerpoint presentation for MBA class, Singapore, 9
November 2001. Reprinted with permission from author.


Global open innovation
As described above, a multinational company should be constantly
trying to translate its multi-location presence into a source of
competitive advantage. Achieving global competitiveness increasingly
requires integrating knowledge worldwide from its own subsidiaries
and from sources beyond the firm’s boundaries. Many MNCs can
benefit from connecting with start-ups around the world that can offer
novel solutions to existing issues or have knowledge which, combined
with the MNC’s existing intelligence, can lead to innovations. Start-ups
can also help MNCs to identify developments that challenge existing
beliefs or dominant logic. Access to different skill sets can also be a
benefit to partnering with start-ups – with a fresh approach and more
agile ways of working.
   The concept of ‘open innovation’ with reference to the trend for
embracing external cooperation has been increasingly applied at a
global level: ‘global open innovation’. As innovations largely come from
outside rather than within an existing organization, the fundamental
idea is that in a globalized world of widely distributed knowledge and
fast-paced technology developments, firms can no longer rely purely
on their own resources and research. It may be more cost-efficient for
them to look externally to buy/ license processes or inventions (i.e.
patents) from other companies.
   One example of this can be found in the INSEAD case study ‘BT
Group: Managing Open Innovation’,12 which describes how British
Telecom set up an innovation hub in Palo Alto in 2000, with a mandate
to identify new technologies and integrate them into BT’s customer-
facing units. International calls were its major source of revenue until
the late 1990s, but the telecoms industry was transformed by the
dot.com bubble, the arrival of WiFi and IP TV, competition from
cable/media companies and the convergence of IT and
communications. New revenues streams were required as landlines
and other services were depleted. Innovation in companies like BT had
traditionally emerged from in-house R&D, but in the early 2000s BT
opened up to external sources, tapping into knowledge centres
worldwide such as universities, high-tech start-ups, customers, other
corporates and R&D labs.
   Another example is the pharmaceutical industry when Merck tackled
the issue of patent expiry on blockbuster drugs (known as ‘patent
cliffs’), after which cheap generic substitutes entered the market.
Facing huge losses, Merck looked beyond the company to innovate
and find cheaper ways to replace its blockbusters. By the end of
2011, Merck executives knew that to continue to grow the company’s
revenue stream, its in-house R&D efforts – the internal pipeline of
drugs in development – would not be sufficient13 (see Example 11.2
below).
   In FMCG Procter & Gamble (P&G) used this approach when a
scientist showed them the lollipop he had invented that spun when a
button was pressed. The MNC adapted the technology to a
toothbrush.14
   However, the pull to an entrepreneurial ecosystem does not always
yield the fruit expected at head office. Setting up a full innovation hub
that absorbs new ideas and creates prototypes far from headquarters
can be expensive, therefore some MNCs implement ‘innovation
outposts’. These are often small offices not designed to create
innovations, but to ‘pick’ up the latest cutting-edge trends and report to
headquarters, thus acting as a connection between the entrepreneurial
cluster and the established firm. Outposts can help MNCs transform
but require support from head office and the relevant business units to
adopt and develop the new ideas.
   Innovation outposts require people who can broker between the
disruptive new ideas and the established methods at head office –
effective brokers. In a California Management Review article,
published in 2021, Benoit Decreton, Jean-Marc Frangos, Lisa
Friedman and Felipe Monteiro describe three types of ineffective
brokers: the loners, who lacked connectivity at both ends; the
connected castaways who were completely tuned into the Valley but
lacked connectivity to headquarters; and the VIP sightseers who were
connected to headquarters but lacked connectivity to Silicon Valley or
the local entrepreneurial ecosystem. Effective brokers cannot be
created overnight – the connections needed require enormous
investment, time and commitment.
   For these outposts to be successful firms should have a clear
purpose that is adapatable depending on how the outpost evolves.
Effective brokers should engage with support teams closer to
headquarters to direct the development of prototypes or build the
business case for collaborations, like launching pads. Relevant
processes need to be established to push external ideas from the
ecosystem to head office whilst pulling problems from business units
to search for external solutions. Commitment is also required at all
levels in the organization. Finally an MNC needs to instil a culture of
collaboration and humility – question whether it is really ready to
engage in open innovation, which is a two-way street.
   Also to be considered when collaborating on a new project is that
secrecy can damage a good partnership. One example of how
external knowledge can advance innovation is Procter and Gamble’s
Connect + Develop open innovation programme. Since its launch in
2001, the programme has formed more than 2,000 partnerships
responsible for dozens of innovative products and new processes to
increase the firm’s productivity. Openness begins from within the
company – P&G principles of open innovation in their business model
enrich the company’s knowledge pool and helps to find new ideas. In a
book provocatively titled ‘Gorillas can Dance’, Prashantam (2022)
documented different lessons from large corporations on partnering
with start-ups to become more innovative.




  MINI-CASE 11.1

  FC Barcelona, Barça Innovation Hub (BIH)

  Throughout its 120-year history, Barça has been a symbol of
  pride for Spain, Catalonia and the Catalan people. Its on-field
  success and star players have captured over 340 million fans
  worldwide who follow the club on social media. A behemoth of the
  sports world, Barça was valued at €3.72 billion on revenues of
  €840.8 million, making it the most valuable football club in 2019. It
  regularly featured among the world’s top ten most valuable sports
  brands. It had over 1,450 official supporters clubs globally,
  50 training academies in 49 countries, commercial offices in the
  USA and China with 39 sponsors and 19 official partners from
  around the world.
     However, huge investments in football clubs from the USA,
  Arabian Gulf, Russia and beyond had precipitated a new era of
competition. New media technologies, sponsorship networks, and
an increasingly global fan base were changing football and sport
more broadly. Innovations in player tracking, coaching technology,
injury prevention and sports science gave early adopters an
advantage.
   Barça responded with the Barça Innovation Hub (BIH), a first-
of-its-kind sports laboratory seeking to define the future of sport
through global open innovation, launched in 2017. It was the
brainchild of the Barça President and his Chief Strategy and
Innovation Officer, Javier Sobrino, with three interlinked goals:

•      To push the boundaries of cutting-edge sports industry
    knowledge
•   Increase the visibility and impact of the Barça brand
•   Develop new revenue streams.

With more than 2,000 athletes from five professional sports
training at the club every day, 120 teams playing every weekend,
the largest stadium in Europe and 3.5 million visitors per year, the
BIH was gatekeeper of a data goldmine centred on athletic
performance, fan engagement and smart facilities. Leveraging the
club’s position at the centre of a global ecosystem, the BIH
worked with partners worldwide on R&D, innovation and
knowledge sharing, giving life to Barça’s motto, ‘More than a
club’. It partnered with universities, research centres, sports
entities, sponsors, brands, investors, start-ups, athletes and fans.
Barça Universitas, Barça’s digital learning platform, organized
conferences and academic programmes, and brought together
3,000 students from 65 countries in 2018.
   It was assessed on several key performance indicators (KPIs),
including the number of projects that the club implemented,
consumers’ associations between Barça and innovation, and the
extent to which the BIH generated new financial resources. To
achieve these goals, the BIH used Barça’s position within a
vibrant ecosystem of sports-focused businesses to identify and
capitalise on new opportunities.
     Open innovation was grounded in a belief that organizations
  should engage with external partners to develop innovations that
  they could neither develop internally nor acquire through a merger
  or acquisition. Throughout the club, all activities focused on
  improving the team or building its financial firepower to compete
  on player transfers and wages.
     To meet the BIH’s global ambitions, Barça identified seven
  locations for consideration: US, China, Tel Aviv, Sweden, Norway,
  Finland and Latin America.

  Questions:

  1    Did the club have access to the innovation that would yield the
      disruptive technologies and processes that would define the
      future?
  2  Where, amidst the world’s innovation clusters, should the BIH
    focus its resources and attention?
  3 Where should the BIH look for inspiration to help Barça
    navigate the future?
  4 How should it integrate and prioritise foreign ideas within an
    organization rooted in tradition, where trophies were the only
    real measure of success for its supporters?
  5 How could global open innovation sustain its current on-field
    excellence and lay the founda-tion for future success?

    This Mini-case is based on an INSEAD case study, Monteiro,
  Davies and Carrick, 2020.


Global knowledge and the protection of intellectual property
rights

The protection of intellectual property rights (IPR) is a source of
concern and sometimes an impediment to practising true global
knowledge management. Global firms are often confronted with
imitations, reverse engineering and trademark copies. Table 11.9 gives
a list of the various forms of intellectual property and their
infringement.
Table 11.9 Intellectual property rights and their infringement


 IPR                              Infringement                   Type of Business
 Patents                          Re-engineer the                Technology products,
                                  invention by                   pharmaceuticals,
 Exclusive right
                                  reconstituting its             chemicals, spares
 granted for the                  components (reverse            parts
 protection of an                 engineering)
 invention

 Trademarks                       Usage of similar or    All branded products
                                  confusing similar sign
 Distinctive signs that
                                  Imitation (with minor
 distinguishes                    change)
 products or service
 of a company

 Copyrights                       Plagiarism           Books, articles,
                                                       music, movies,
 Original intellectual            Reproduction without
                                                       software, video, art
 creation                         quotation
                                                       works

 Industrial designs               Imitation                      Fashion, all industrial
                                                                 and household
 Aesthetic or outward
                                                                 products, jewellery,
 appearance of a                                                 packaging
 product: shape,
 pattern, ornaments

 Trade secrets                    Leakage by                     Financial, legal,
                                  employees                      commercial,
                                  Espionage                      managerial
 Confidential         Unauthorized                                 documents used as
 business information diffusion: press,                            internal strategic,
                      internet                                     managerial and
                                                                   organizational
                                                                   communication

 Geographical                     Copy                   Wines, foods,
 indications                                             agricultural products,
                                  Reproduction with
                                                         jewellery, watches,
 Signs on goods that              similar shape, colour,
                                                         pottery, tableware
 have a specific                  graphism
 geographical origin

 Integrated circuits              Copy                             Electronic industry,
                                                                   machinery, car
 Layout and design of Leakage by
                                                                   industry, aeronautic
 integrated circuits  employees


Source: ‘Secrets of Intellectual Property’, International Trade Centre, World Intellectual Property
Organization (2003)
https://www.wipo.int/edocs/pubdocs/en/intproperty/itc_p163/wipo_pub_itc_p163.pdf

  Protection against infringement of IPR can involve the measures
summarized in Table 11.10.
Table 11.10 Protection of intellectual property rights


 Parties involved              Protection methods
 Employees                      Restrict disclosure of IP to selected
                                employees Require key employees to sign
                                individual secrecy agreements Establish a
                                strict catalogue of level of confidentiality Keep
                                IP in secure location Educate employees on
                                the rationale and the consequences of
                                infringement Regularly interview employees
                                Prepare handbook listing items to be
                                protected, and what to do in case of leakage
                       suspicion; give recommendations about best
                       practices

 Suppliers             Non-disclosure agreements
                       Establish rules about what can and cannot be
                       disclosed

 Joint venture         Be specific in the joint venture contract Use
 partners              ‘black box’ approach when technically feasible
                       Screen partners’ employees

 Legal issues          Lobby governments
                       Use diplomatic channels to support actions
                       Engage in legal action as soon as possible,
                       even if legal context is unfavourable



EXAMPLE 11.2 Global virtual lab at Merck Sharp and Dohme
(MSD)

With revenues of $39.5 billion and 68,000 employees in 140 countries
worldwide, MSD was the seventh largest global pharmaceutical
company in 2016. Before 2000, R&D at Merck was predominantly
done in house by laboratories scattered around the world. Early in
2000, the company decided to accelerate its partnership and licensing
activities in order to boost the research pipeline. The concept of a
‘virtual lab’ was developed with the creation of a specialized World
Wide Licensing group designed to support research done in-house by
licensing-in complementary external technologies. This entailed the
need to identify, contact and create relationships with small
entrepreneurial firms.
   In order to identify and get in touch with those firms, the World Wide
Licensing group created a ‘scouting organization’ with seventeen
scientific talent scouts covering the USA, Europe, Asia, Australia and
South America. The task of these scouts was to identify and propose
new opportunities for research partnerships.
  The process used was made of five phases:

1  Needs identification: the ‘franchise’ for each therapeutic area
  (cardiovascular, oncology etc.) defines the domains in which
  technology partnerships would be useful. The franchise then
  publishes an ‘area of interest booklet’ to help guide the scouts’
  research.
2 The scouts look for new opportunities in those areas and identify
  potential firms to approach.
3 Evaluation and selection from amongst those opportunities and the
  initial contact and dialogue with the partnership candidates
  identified.
4 The relationship is taken over by a group of franchise licensing
  integrators (FLIs) within each franchise. The FLIs evaluate the
  scientific and market potential of the selected opportunities and
  pass their evaluation to a Review and Licensing Committee (RLC)
  that gives the final green light for negotiations to proceed.
5     After approval, transactions managers take charge of negotiating
     the deal with partners.
Table 11.11 Scout locations


 USA                            Asia
 • North California             •  Korea
 • South California             •  Japan
 • South West                   •  Hong Kong (China, Hong Kong,
 • Midwest                        Taiwan)
 • New England                  Australasia
 Europe
                                •   Australia
 •    UK, Ireland, Spain,       •   New Zealand
     Portugal
 •   Germany, France
 •   Italy, Switzerland
 •   Denmark (Scandinavia)

This process was highly selective: it was estimated that, in 2011, of
7,000 opportunities generated by scouts only 20 per cent were
transferred to FLIs; of those only 15 per cent were sent to the RLC
who in turn approved just 6 per cent to go ahead. By 2010 this
licensing process had achieved significant successes, to the extent
that two-thirds of the company’s sales for that year were attributed to
in-licensing products.
   Although this process brought the desired results some concerns
were expressed internally. First, it was argued that it made the R&D
process too dependent on external sources of knowledge and
innovation. If this was not compensated by a strong internal research
effort it would mean a loss of autonomous knowledge creation.
Without strong internal R&D keeping up to date on new issues and
trends, it would eventually become difficult to properly assess new
external opportunities. Another issue was the reluctance of some in-
house laboratories to accept external collaboration.
Source: Data used with permission from Klueter and Monteiro (2014).



Open innovation, however, is not just about getting contacts, firms
must begin by creating the correct conditions within their organization.
Firms need to partner with partnerships with the right mindset, with a
willingness to share as well as absorb knowledge.
   Reciprocity and trust are two key factors in achieving efficient and
equitable outcomes in these partnerships. It is important to protect an
organization’s IP but if this is done in a clumsy manner it can lead to
an ambiance of secrecy and tension. It is therefore preferable to rely
on legal mechanisms such as patents and copyright to protect IP.
   In the research paper ‘Ready to be open? Explaining the firm level
barriers to benefiting from openness to external knowledge’, Monteiro
et al. showed that using secrecy as a strategic tool can be a major
barrier to open innovation. Their results show there is a trade-off
between strategies aimed at accessing external knowledge through
collaborations with outside parties and those using secretive behaviour
such as a strategic knowledge protection mechanism: open innovation
is a two-way street.16




  MINI-CASE 11.2

  Global giants’ R&D networks – Siemens and BASF

  R&D at Siemens

  Siemens is a global electronics and electrical engineering
  corporation, operating in energy, healthcare, infrastructure and
  industrial solutions sectors. Founded in Germany in 1925, the
  company has 385,000 employees working at 1,640 locations
  around the globe, including 176 R&D facilities. Its revenue in 2019
  was €86.849 billion. As of 30 September 2019, Siemens held
  approximately 68,300 granted patents, had 6,850 inventions and
  3,750 patent applications pending. There were on average
  45,100 employees that worked in R&D in 2019, in 44 countries
  including 14,100 in Germany. R&D expenditures climbed to €5.7
  billion in fiscal year 2019, up from €5.6 billion in fiscal year 2018.
     Its research and development activities were geared towards
  developing innovative, sustainable solutions for its customers –
  and the Siemens businesses.
     Joint implementation of its operating units and Corporate
  Technology, the firm’s central R&D department, ensures that
  research activities and business strategies are aligned. These
  units also benefit equally and in a speedy manner from new
  technological developments. Siemens focused on technologies
  including additive manufacturing, autonomous robotics, blockchain
applications, connected (e-)mobility, connectivity and edge
devices, cyber security, data analytics and artificial intelligence,
distributed energy systems, energy storage, future of automation,
materials, power electronics, simulation and digital twins, and
software systems and processes.
   Further technologies are currently being developed through its
‘open innovation’ concept. They work closely with scholars from
leading universities and research institutions with the focus on its
strategic research partners, and especially its eight Centres of
Knowledge Interchange that they maintain at leading universities
worldwide. Siemens’ global venture capital unit, Next47, provides
capital to help start-ups expand and scale and serves as the
creator of next-generation businesses for Siemens by building,
buying and partnering with innovative companies at any stage.

Technology

Technology (T) is the central in-house research unit at Siemens. T
works alongside the business units to drive forward the basic
technologies that are important for the company as a whole.
   These core technologies are crucial to the long-term success of
Siemens and its customers. Experts from the global research
department of T and the various businesses work together here,
consolidating the company’s R&D activities.
   The global network of experts comprises 2,400 employees,
including 1,700 researchers and 350 patent experts. It acts as a
strategic partner to support the executive units with R&D
services, protect the company’s intellectual property and
coordinate the collaboration with top universities worldwide.
   The main locations are in Germany, Austria, the US, China,
Russia, and India.

R&D at BASF17

BASF SE is a German multinational chemical company founded in
1865. BASF is an acronym for Badische Anilin und Soda Fabrik
(German for ‘Baden Aniline and Soda Factory’). BASF Group is
made up of subsidiaries and joint ventures in more than 80
countries and operates in 6 integrated production sites and 390
other production sites in Europe, Asia, Australia, the Americas
and Africa. Headquartered in Ludwigshafen, Germany, BASF has
customers in over 190 countries and supplies products to a wide
variety of industries.
   At the end of 2019, the company employed more than 117,000
people, with over 54,000 in Germany. In 2019, BASF posted
sales of €59.3 billion and income from operations before special
items of €4.5 billion.
   BASF’s portfolio is made up of six segments: Chemicals,
Materials, Industrial Solutions, Surface Technologies, Nutrition &
Care and Agricultural Solutions.
   The company is organized into 11 divisions that are grouped
into 6 segments based on their business models. These divisions
are responsible for operations and organized according to sectors
or products. They manage the 54 global and regional business
units developing strategies for the 76 strategic business units.
   The regional and country units represent BASF locally,
supporting the growth of the operation divisions in proximity to
customers. The regional divisions are organized into four regions:
Europe, North America, Asia Pacific, and South America, Africa,
Middle East.
   Eight global units form the corporate centre that is accountable
for group-wide governance and supports BASF’s Board of
Executive Directors. Four global cross-functional service units
offer services for individual sites or globally for business units of
the BASF Group.
   BASF has three global research divisions that are run from the
group’s key regions – Europe, Asia Pacific and North America:
Process Research & Chemical Engineering (Ludwigshafen,
Germany), Advanced Materials & Systems Research (Shanghai,
China) and Bioscience Research (Research Triangle Park, North
Carolina). Together with the development units in the operating
divisions, they form the core of the global Know-How Verbund.
   BASF developed a management approach called Verbund that
integrates manufacturing and research. Production plants at large
sites are closely interlinked and, in addition, the byproducts of one
plant can be used as the starting materials of another. BASF
considers that Verbund is the foun-dation of its competitiveness in
all regions.
   The group operates six Verbund sites as well as 361 additional
production sites in more than 90 countries that ‘create chemistry –
around the globe’.18

Questions:

1  How does the global management of R&D at Siemens and
  BASF compare?
2 What are the potential benefits of the Verbund concept?


Summary and key points
1   International product life cycle
    a    How product innovations and production migrated from
      country of origin of innovative firms to other country
      subsidiaries through a three-stage sequential process: 1)
      innovative country; 2) second-tier country; 3) third-tier
      country, mainly developing world
    b    This model cannot explain the globalization of innovation
      that occurred after the 1960s
2   Global R&D network
    a  Global firms more and more use a distributed network of
      R&D centres involving the collaboration of multiple sites
      scattered around the world
    b Main motivations to set up a centre in a particular country
      are:
      • proximity to local markets
    • availability of skilled personnel
    •       R&D-supporting environments such as leading
     universities and local institutes
c   Global Innovation Index (GII) provides insightful data on
  innovation that could help economies evaluate their
  innovation performance and make informed innovation
  policies. Main benefits of decentralized managed R&D:
   • Proximity to market
   • Access to geographical clusters of knowledge creation
     and development
   • Learning from local knowledge
d      Access to low-cost and good-quality scientists and
  engineers Main constraints of decentralized managed R&D:
   • Critical mass
   • Communications
e   Four categories of research centre:
    • Research laboratories
    • Development laboratories
    • Supportive/adaptive units
    • Scanning units
f   Issues in the management of global R&D:
    •   Size of units: too big hampers communication
    •     Role of units: discipline-centred or product/process-
        centred
    •         Degree of integration: autonomous projects or
        integrated
    •    Systems: resource allocation, control, performance
      evaluation
    •      Knowledge diffusion and documentation: people
      rotation, conferencing, personal networking, electronic
        knowledge      management       platforms, databases,
        publications
      •     People and culture: small central staff, rotation,
        ‘gatekeepers’ in each laboratory, openness
    g Typical evolution:
        •     First stage is central R&D laboratory
        •  Second stage is the set-up of local laboratories
        •      Third stage is the establishment of centres of
          excellence
3   International technology transfer
    a   Types of technology:
        •     Product
        •     Process
        •     Management
    b       Forms of technology transfer:
        •     Physical
      • Informational
    c Key issues:
      • Appropriateness
      • Completeness
      • The risk of isolated subsidiaries
      • Global open innovation
4   Global knowledge management system
    a  Knowledge: ability to decipher and give a meaning to facts
      and information
    b   Knowledge management: ability to create, combine and
      share knowledge among its members
    c Knowledge can be tacit or explicit
    d      Opportunities for knowledge management: diversity of
        contexts, variety of experiences
    e      Constraints: languages, differences of cultures and
      mindsets, ‘not invented here’ reaction, unwillingness and
      lack of motivation to share knowledge, nationalistic
      perspectives, incentive system not conducive to sharing
    f   Transfer of best practices made less effective by: casual
      ambiguity, lack of capacity for absorption, difficult
      relationships
    g       Models of knowledge creation, sharing and ‘melding’:
        •     C&C model (co-location and co-setting)
        •     D&C model (dispersion and co-setting)
        •     C&D model (co-location and diverse setting)
        •      D&D model (dispersion and diverse setting) – major
             organizational tools:
             — Training for all relevant personnel
             — Socialization programme (informal team building)
             — Transition meetings (more formal team building and
                knowledge transfer)
             — Context-awareness training
             — Access to useful knowledge resources, especially a
              comprehensive staff and responsibilities directory
          — Clear deadlines for project completion
5   Intellectual property rights (IPR)
    Types: patents, trademarks, copyrights, industrial design,
    trade secrets, genetic codes

Learning assignments
1    Why is the international product life cycle model no longer
    appropriate to explain global innovation?
2    What are the constraints on implementing a distributed R&D
    network?
3  What are the appropriate HRM practices conducive to global
  R&D?
4 When is technology transfer complete?
5  Give two examples of ‘explicit’ knowledge and two examples
  of ‘tacit’ knowledge in a business context of your choice.
6 What are the major challenges that the ‘metanational’ model
  of knowledge creation, sharing and ‘melding’ tries to address?
7 How can global open innovation help companies be cost
  efficient whilst remaining innovative?
8 How can research performance be measured?
9    How can you protect intellectual property rights (IPR) in a
    global firm through reciproc-ity and trust to achieve efficient
    and equitable outcomes in partnerships?

Key words
•   Best practices
•   Centre of excellence
•   Co-location
•   Combination
•   Explicit knowledge
•   Externalization
•   Global open innovation
•   Innovation
•   Innovation outposts
•   Intellectual property
•   Internal stickiness
•   Isolated subsidiaries
•   Knowledge management
•   Metanational
•    Networked organization
•    Socialization
•    Tacit knowledge
•    Technology scouting
•    Technology transfer

Web resources
National Sciences Foundation:
http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/seind06/c4/c4s6.htm



    Companion website

    Visit the companion website at bloomsbury.pub/global-
    strategic-management-5e for a multitude of weblinks and
    resources, self-test questions for revision and appendices.


Notes
1   Vernon (1966).
2          http://uis.unesco.org/apps/visualisations/research-and-development-spending/
   (accessed 9 february 2021)
3 Ibid
4 These categories are based on De Meyer (1992) and Wortmann (1990).
5 Doz and Wilson (2006).
6 Allen (1977).
7 Lahiri (2010).
8 This taxonomy is inspired by Pearce and Singh (1992) and Chiesa (2000: 341–59).
9 De Meyer (1991).
10 De Meyer (1992).
11 Lasserre (1995).
12 Monteiro and Decreton (2018).
13 Klueter and Monteiro (2014).
14     https://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article/toys-and-spinning-brushes-how-john-
   osher-found-his-way-to-profits/
15 Monteiro, Davies and Carrick (2020).
16 Monteiro, Mol and Birkinshaw (2016).
17                        Global          Research             at            Siemens,
   https://www.siemens.com/global/en/home/company/innovation.html (accessed 29
   June 2017).
18 https://www.basf.com/global/en/investors/ calendar-and-publications/factbook /basf-
   group/ verbund.html (accessed 9 February 2022).


References and further reading

Books and articles
Allen, T. J. (1977) Managing the Flow of Technology (Cambridge, MA: MIT Press).
Augier, M. and Teece, D. J. (2007) ‘Dynamic capabilities and multinational enterprise:
   Penrosean insights and omissions’, Management International Review, 47 (2): 175–92.
Bogers, Marcel, et al. (2017) ‘The open innovation research landscape: established
   perspectives and emerging themes across different levels of analysis’, Industry and
   Innovation 24 (1): 8–40.
Boutellier, R., Gassmann, O. and Von Zedtwitz, M. (2009) Managing Global Innovation:
   Uncovering the Secrets of Future Competitiveness (Berlin: Springer).
Chesbrough, H. (2003) Open Innovation: The New Imperative for Creating and Profiting
   from Technology (Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press).
Chiesa, V. (2000) ‘Global R&D project management and organization: a taxonomy’,
   Journal of Product Innovation Management, 17 (5): 323–409.
Decreton, B., Monteiro, L. F., Frangos, J. M. and Friedman, L. (2021) ‘Innovation outposts
   in entrepreneurial ecosystems: why so many of them fail to be effective brokers and
   how to make them more successful’, California Management Review.
   https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/0008125621996494 (accessed 1 February
   2022).
De Meyer, A. (1991) ‘Tech talk: how managers are stimulating global R&D
   communication’, Sloan Management Review, 49: 49–58.
De Meyer, A. (1992) ‘Management of international R&D operations’, Chapter 8 in O.
   Granstrand, S. Spölander and L. Häkanson (eds), Technology Management and
   International Business (New York, NY: John Wiley).
De Meyer, A. (1993) ‘Nestlé SA’, INSEAD Case Study 07/91-093.
Doz, Y., Dos Santos, J. and Williamson, P. J. (2001a) From Global to Metanational: How
   Companies Win in the Knowledge Economy (Boston, MA: Harvard Business Press).
Doz, Y., Dos Santos, J. and Williamson, P. J. (2001b) The Metanational Corporation
   (Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press).
Doz, Y. and Wilson, K. (2006) Innovation: Is Global the Way Forward? (INSEAD and
   Booz Allen Hamilton).
Doz, Y. and Wilson, K. (2012) ‘10 rules for managing global innovation’, Harvard
   Business Review, 90 (10): 85–90.
Dutta, S., Lanvin, B. and Wunsch-Vincent, S. (2020) ‘Global Innovation Index 2020 who
   will finance innovation?’ Cornell University, INSEAD, and the World Intellectual Property
   Organization (WIPO). https://www.wipo.int/edocs/pubdocs/en/wipo_pub_gii_2020.pdf
   (accessed 1 February 2022).
Garg, P. and Zhao, M. (2018) ‘Knowledge sourcing by multidivisional firms’, Strategic
   Management Journal, 39 (13): 3325–54.
Gómez, J., Salazar, I. and Vargas, P. (2020) ‘The role of extramural R&D and scientific
   knowledge in creating high novelty innovations: an examination of manufacturing and
   service firms in Spain’, Research Policy, 49 (8): 104030.
Huston, L. and Sakkab, N. (2006) ‘Inside Procter & Gamble’s new model for innovation’,
   Harvard Business Review, 84 (3): 58–66.
Jaruzelski, B., Schwartz, K. and Staack, V. (2015) ‘The 2015 global innovation 1000:
   innovation’s new world order’, Strategy + Business, 81, Winter.
Kim, S. and Lee, H. (2010) ‘Factors affecting employee knowledge acquisition and
   application capabilities’, Asia-Pacific Journal of Business Administration, 2 (2): 133–52.
Klueter, T. and Monteiro, L. F. (2014) ‘Building the virtual lab: global licensing and
   partnering at Merck’, INSEAD Case Study. https://publishing.insead.edu/case/building-
   virtual-lab-global-licensing-and-partnering-merck (accessed 1 February 2022).
Klueter, T. and Monteiro, L. F. (2017) ‘How does performance feedback affect boundary
   spanning in multinational corporations? Insights from technology scouts’, Journal of
   Management Studies. doi: 10.1111/joms.12252.
Klueter, T., Monteiro, L. F. and Dunlap, D. (2017) ‘Standard vs. partnership-embedded
   licensing: attention and The relationship between licensing and product innovations’,
   Research Policy. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.respol.2017.07.013 (accessed 1 February
   2022).
Kuemmerle, W. (1997) ‘Building effective R&D capabilities abroad’, Harvard Business
   Review, 75 (2): 61–70.
Kumar, N. and Puranam, P. (2012) India Inside: The Emerging Innovation Challenge to
   the West (Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press).
Lahiri, N. (2010) ‘Geographic distribution of R&D activity: how does it affect innovation
   quality?’ Academy of Management Journal, 53 (5): 1194–209.
Lasserre, P. (1995) ‘Training: key to technology transfer’, Long Range Planning, 15 (4).
Leonard-Barton, D. and Thill, G. (1994) ‘Hewlett-Packard: Singapore’, Harvard Business
   School Case 9-694-035.
Li, J. and Xie, Z. (2011) ‘Global R&D strategies in an emerging economy: the
   development and protection of technological competencies’, European Management
   Review, 8 (3): 153–64.
Meyer, K. E., Li, C. and Schotter, A. P. J. (2020) ‘Managing the MNE subsidiary: advancing
   a multi-level and dynamic research agenda’, Journal of International Business Studies,
   51: 538–76.
Monteiro, L. F. and Birkinshaw, J. (2017) ‘The external knowledge sourcing process in
   multinational corporations’, Strategic Management Journal. doi: 10.1002/smj.2487.
Monteiro, L. F. and Decreton, B. (2018) ‘BT Group: managing open innovation’, INSEAD
   Case Study 05/2018-6397 2018. https://publishing.insead.edu/case/bt-group
   (accessed 1 February 2022).
Monteiro, L. F., Arvidsson, N. and Birkinshaw, J. (2008) ‘Knowledge flows within
   multinational corporations: explaining subsidiary isolation and its performance
   implications’, Organization Science, 19 (1): 90–107.
Monteiro, L. F., Davies, J. and Carrick, A. M. (2020) ‘Barça Innovation Hub (BIH) goes
   global: innovation on and off the pitch’, INSEAD Case Study.
   https://publishing.insead.edu/case/barca-innovation-hub (accessed 1 February 2022).
Monteiro, L. F., Mol, M. and Birkinshaw, J. (2016) ‘Ready to be open? Explaining the firm
   level barriers to benefiting from openness to external knowledge’, Long Range
   Planning. doi: 10.1016/j. lrp.2015.12.008.
Nonaka, I. and Takeuchi, H. (1995) The Knowledge Creating Country: How Japanese
   Companies Create the Dynamics of Innovation (Oxford: Oxford University Press).
Pearce, R. D. and Singh, S. (1992) Globalizing Research and Development
  (Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan).
Podolny, J. and Hansen, M. (2020) “How Apple Is organized for innovation”, Harvard
  Business Review, 98 (6): 86-95.
Porter, M. (1998) The Competitive Advantage of Nations (New York, NY: Free Press).
Prashantham, S. (2021) ‘Partnering with startups globally: distinct strategies for different
  locations’,California Management Review, 63 (4): 123–45.
Prashantam, S. (2022). Gorillas Can Dance. John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New
  Jersey
Schotter, A. P. J., Mudambi, R., Doz, Y. L. and Gaur, A. (2017) ‘Boundary spanning in
  global organizations’, Journal of Management Studies.
  https://doi.org/10.1111/joms.12256 (accessed 1 February 2022).
Szulanski, G. (1996) ‘Exploring internal stickiness: impediments to the transfer of best
  practices within the firm’, Strategic Management Journal, 17, Special Issue: 27–43.
Ter Wal, A. L. J., Criscuolo, P. and Salter, A. (2017) ‘Making a marriage of materials: the
  role of gatekeepers and shepherds in the absorption of external knowledge and
  innovation performance’, Research Policy, 46 (5): 1039–54.
Terwiesch, C. and Xu, Y. (2008) ‘Innovation contests, open innovation, and multiagent
  problem solving’, Management Science, 54 (9): 1529–43.
United Nations (1993) Intellectual Property Rights and Direct Foreign Investment (New
  York, NY: United Nations).
Van Tulder, R. et al. (2007) Private Sector R&D: Global View, Locomotive Project
  (Copenhagen: Erasmus University/Interlace-Invent).
Vernon, R. (1966) ‘International investment and international trade in the product life
  cycle’, Quarterly Journal of Economics, 29 (2): 190–207.
Von Zedtwitz, M., Gasman, O. and Boutellier, R. (2004) ‘Organizing global R&D:
  challenges and dilemmas’, Journal of International Management, 10: 21–49.
Wortmann, M. (1990) ‘Multinationals and the internationalization of R&D: new
  developments in German companies’, Research Policy, 19 (2): 175–83.


Journals
California Management Review: https://cmr.berkeley.edu/
Journal of International Business Studies:
  https://link.springer.com/journal/41267/volumes-and-issues
R&D Management, Wiley-Blackwell: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/14679310?
  gclid=Cj0KCQiAip-PBhDVARIs-APP2xc1CKBNzMTaP27mT1jNaVVaU3N9iXrN0TF-
  lo69oSD7eAzan5pnuXIN4aAiqsEALw_wcB
Research Policy: https://www.journals.elsevier.com/research-policy
Strategic Management Journal: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/10970266
Chapter 12

Global financial management




 At the end of the chapter you will be able to:
 •     Understand the nature of the risks generated by currency
    fluctuations
 • Explain the hedging techniques available to manage currency
    fluctuations
 • Compute the cash flow of an international project and assess
    its economic return using either the adjusted present value
    (APV) method or the cost of capital adjustment (CCA) method
 •  Recognize the benefits of crosslisting
 •       Appreciate the benefits and pitfalls of raising debt
   internationally
 • Describe the mechanics behind, and some key tips for, using
   the various instruments of trade finance for global companies



Introduction
The world of global finance has evolved dramatically since 1980.
Alongside traditional financing instruments such as international
promissory notes that have existed since the Middle Ages, a vast
array of facilities has been opened to firms operating across borders,
ranging from hedging techniques to cross-border listing and swaps.
Firms operating globally face several challenges related to the
management of their cash flows, the cost of their capital and their
exposure to risks. The domain of international finance is vast, and
cannot be fully analysed within this chapter. We shall address some
key issues in global financial management, but the discussion will be
limited to managerial issues and will avoid the technical examples that
more specialized books often provide.1
   Four central global financial management issues are discussed in
this chapter (Figure 12.1):

•      Currency risk: exposure and hedging: how to protect against
    currency fluctuation
•   Project finance: how to evaluate international investments, and
  how to finance them
•    Capital structure: how to take advantage of global financial
  markets to raise equity and deal with debt
•         Trade finance: the traditional instruments of financing
    exports/imports of goods.
Figure 12.1 Key issues in global financial management


Currency risk
The most prevalent feature of international finance is that currencies
fluctuate in value against each other. Figure 12.2 shows the
fluctuation of four major global currencies (the US dollar, the yen, the
pound sterling and the Chinese yuan) against the euro from 2000 to
2021.
Figure 12.2 Variation of major currencies against the euro, 2000 to 2021, yearly average
Note: Coefficient of variation = Standard deviation/mean.

Source: Authors’ own figure based on data from http://fxtop.com/fr/historique-taux-change.php
(accessed 1 February 2022), reproduced from fxtop.com.

  Companies operating globally are by definition exposed to different
currency fluctuations. Their economic value can be affected in three
ways:

•    Their competitive advantage can deteriorate or be enhanced owing
    to the direct or indirect impact of a change in currency values. This
    is a strategic exposure that translates into a change in future cash
    flow potential.
•       The short-term cash flow resulting from existing financial or
    commercial commitments can be affected positively or negatively.
    This is a transaction exposure.
•     The reported valuation of assets and liabilities of global firms is
    also affected by currency variations; this in turn may affect market
    perception and ultimately the market value of firms. This is the
    translation exposure.
Strategic exposure
Currency fluctuations may have a direct or indirect effect on
companies’ competitive advantages by increasing their costs to an
uncompetitive level or by giving competitors with weakened currencies
a sudden competitive edge. This type of exposure is most significant in
products or services that cater to price-sensitive customers, which is
the case for most commodities. But even in differentiated products or
services, such as aero engines or cars, a sharp increase in a country’s
currency value may lead to strategic disadvantage. In 2001 Nissan
reduced the content of parts in its Micra model made in the UK to 55
per cent from 72 per cent due to the high value of the pound sterling.
The group felt at a competitive disadvantage in maintaining a high level
of local content in the country. Global firms are better positioned than
domestic players to deal with strategic exposure because of their
diversified market portfolio. They can also relocate production
facilities, although that requires a lot of flexibility in resources transfer
for effective implementation, and such willingness to shift location may
affect their reputation as responsible citizens in the countries from
which they exit. In practice, it is difficult to take drastic action of this
type without being certain of the long-term structural weakness of a
currency, which can be difficult to predict, as Figure 12.2 shows.
   Hedging against this type of exposure is a matter of strategic
product and geographic positioning and global deployment of
productive assets:

•     Hedging with strategic product positioning consists of developing
    products (or services) for price-insensitive market segments though
    differentiation.
•    Hedging with geographical positioning consists of balancing sales
    and production within exchange zones; a pure global company
    whose revenues and productive assets are evenly distributed
    across the dollar zone, the euro zone and the yen zone would be
    sheltered, to a large degree, against the damaging competitive
    consequences of currency variations.
•    Global deployment of productive assets would consist of sourcing
    either in-house or from external suppliers in low-cost countries such
    as China (which, despite its strong currency position, is still a low-
    cost manufacturing base for a large number of products).

Transaction exposure
Transaction exposure is the risk that currency fluctuation imposes on
existing contractual engagements, one that may result in unexpected
losses. Currency fluctuations reflect the differences in economic
conditions between two countries: differences in inflation and interest
rates particularly, as well as the confidence that investors will place in
the stability of a country’s economic and political conditions. This
exposure occurs when a company borrows in a given currency to
finance a productive asset that generates revenues in another
currency. It also occurs when a company operating in a given country
has signed a sales or supply contract that will be billed and paid in the
future in a different currency. The positive or negative variation of the
exchange rate will induce transaction gains or transaction losses.
Obviously, transaction losses can damage company wealth while
transaction gains give a speculative profit. Confronted with the
probability of such gains or losses, the company can take two
positions: a speculative attitude, betting on the probability that there
will be a transaction gain; or a hedging perspective, making sure as
soon as the contract is signed that the company will receive/pay a
certain amount in its own currency whatever the exchange rate
variation. There are several hedging techniques that can be used to
guard against currency variation. The most frequently used ones are:
forward contracts, future contracts, swap contracts and options.
Other techniques such as leading and lagging or netting can also be
used, but they are not considered as ‘hedging’ in the sense that there
is still a certain degree of uncertainty.

Hedging techniques
•    Forward contracts consist of buying at a fixed future date a fixed
    quantity of a given currency at a fixed exchange rate (the forward
    rate).

   Forward rates reflect fundamentally the difference in interest rates
between the two countries. For example, a European importer of
Japanese goods will buy forward yen in order to be certain of paying
the Japanese supplier at a known exchange rate. The same European
company when exporting to the United States will sell the US dollars it
will receive as payment at a pre-fixed exchange rate. An alternative
method that produces exactly the same results is for the exporter to
borrow euros, transform them into yen for the amount needed at the
prevailing known rate of exchange on the day of the order. The yen
are placed in a yen money market account and, at the date of the
settlement, are used to pay the Japanese supplier; the interest gained
is used to pay the interest due on the euro borrowing. The company
will have to bear only the interest differential between the yen and the
euros, which is exactly how the forward rate is calculated. In the case
of the exporter to the United States, the company will borrow dollars
and transform them into euros, put the euros in a money market
account and, when it receives the money from the customer, use the
dollars to pay back the loan; the interest gained on the euros pays the
interest on the dollar loan. Forward contracts are the most common
hedging techniques used by corporations. See Insert 12.1.


    Insert 12.1 Hedging exposure to currency risk
    with forward contract
    Piccadilly Wine and Spirits Ltd is a UK wine distributor that on 17
    February 2022 ordered 3,000 bottles of Gigondas red wine from
    a vineyard in the Rhône valley (France) for €50,000 payable upon
    delivery, in three months. Hence the owner is exposed to
    exchange rate risk since he does not know what the pound
    sterling value will be in three months. He is subject to a
    transaction exposure for €50,000 since the GBP/EUR exchange
    rate varies. To protect himself, he can use one of several hedging
    techniques, of which the forward contract hedge is the most
    frequently used. In this case Piccadilly Wine’s owner can fix today
    the rate at which he will buy €50,000 by guaranteeing the bank
    that he will be able to deliver the agreed fixed euro amount in
    three months. Banks publish each day’s forward rates in multiple
    currencies. On 17 February 2022 the spot rate was £0.8353 per
    euro and so on that day the €50,000 are worth 50,000*0.8353 =
    £41,765. His bank gave him the three-month forward rate at 0.84
    and in order to limit his risk he bought a forward contract by
    which he will, in three months, buy €50,000*0.84 = £42000,
    agreeing to take a £235 loss in comparison to the present spot
    rate ( a loss of 0,5 %) . On 17 May 2022 (when payment came
    due) the £/€ exchange rate was 0.8446. If the company had not
    agreed the forward contract it would now have had to pay
    50,000*0.8446 = £42,230, a loss of £465 (nearly 1.2 per cent of
    the order value).
       An expanded case to explore and explain this topic in more
    detail can be found on the companion website to this book at
    bloomsbury.pub/global-strategic-management-5e


•   Futures contracts are similar to forward contracts but they are
  standard financial instruments traded in futures markets such as
  London, Chicago or Singapore. They have a given size and a given
  expiry date.
•     Options are contracts in which you buy the right to sell (put
  option) or buy (call option) a currency at a given exchange rate (the
  strike price) at the end of a maturity period. If at the end of the
  period the spot rate of the currency has varied unfavourably, you
  will not exercise your right. This option has a price (the option
  premium).
•    Currency swap contracts are intermediated by a swap bank that
    matches long-term loans issued by two companies in their
    respective currency zones for use in the other company’s currency
    zone. Company X borrows in currency A to be used in country B
    with loan repayment generated in currency B, while company Y
    borrows in currency B to be used in country A with loan repayment
    generated in currency A. The two companies can swap their loan.
    Assuming a perfect symmetry of the two loans, which the swap
    bank can arrange, there is a perfect hedging for companies X and
    Y. Swap contracts are good hedging techniques for long-term
    currency exposures.

Non-hedging techniques
Two other common forms of reducing transaction exposures are
leading and lagging or netting:

•     Leading and lagging is a technique by which you can collect
  receivables early (leading) if they are nominated in ‘soft’ currencies
  and delay collection (lagging) of receivables nominated in ‘hard’
  currencies. Similarly, you would try to delay payment of payables
  nominated in ‘soft’ currencies and accelerate payment of payables
  nominated in ‘hard’ currencies.
• Netting is a technique used by treasurers of global firms that have
  centralized cash management for subsidiaries that trade with each
  other. Only the net cash balance resulting from the forecast inter-
  trade movement in their respective currencies is actually
  transformed and hedged into the currency that has a creditor
  position. If a German factory is planning to sell €1 million of
  components to a Singaporean company and the Singaporean
  factory is expected to sell 3 million Singapore dollars (S$) of
  finished products, the German factory will hedge S$650,000, which
  represents the net position at the rate of S$1.54 per euro at the
  time of the plan. This reduces the amount of currency exposed and
  the hedging costs. There are actually two different netting systems:
  bilateral netting (netting between pairs of subsidiaries) and
  multilateral netting (netting of all transactions and transfer of the net
  to a central centre).

Translation exposure
This type of exposure reflects the effects that changes in currency
values have on the financial statements of global firms, and therefore
on their profits and book valuation. There are several techniques to
adjust income statements and balance sheets for currency
fluctuations. The two main methods are the monetary/non-monetary
method and the current rate method. In the monetary/non-monetary
method, monetary items (e.g. cash, accounts payable and receivable,
and long-term debt) are translated at the current rate while non-
monetary items (e.g. inventory, fixed assets and long-term
investments) are translated at historical rates. In the current rate
method, assets and liabilities items are translated at the current
exchange rate and income statement items are translated at the rate
of the transaction or at an average rate over the period.
   In practice, this type of exposure has relevance only to the extent
that the economic source of value creation and valuation, the cash
flow, is affected by the difference in reported translations. This may
be the case concerning the tax consequences of currency fluctuation.
Accounting standards require that translation exposure be reported,
but market valuation is affected only to the extent to which reporting
translation exposure reveals the strategic and transaction risks to
which the firm is exposed.

Project finance
International project finance deals with the valuation and the financing
of productive investments (different from financial portfolio
investments) in different countries from that of the investor. In a global
firm, there can be a multitude of configurations of international
investments. A Swiss-based pharmaceutical firm may use a French
subsidiary to implement a project in China jointly with a German
subsidiary because it may relate to a product in which the French
subsidiary has global responsibilities and for which the German
engineering subsidiary has competencies in building plants. Project
finance may concern greenfield wholly owned investments,
acquisitions or joint ventures. The two key issues in project finance
are: how to value these investments? How to finance them?

Project valuation
As in any economic valuation, the value of an investment for an
investor is equal to the value of future cash flows discounted by the
weighted average cost of capital minus the discounted value of
debts. The only complexities that an international investment generates
are the strategic and transaction currency exposures and any specific
country risks. Table 12.1 gives an overview of the major types of risks
involved in international projects and Table 12.2 lists some means of
reducing those risks. Online Appendix 12.1 addresses the definitions
of major risks involved in international projects.
Table 12.1 Classification of risk linked to infrastructure assets
Table 12.2 Financial risk mitigants and incentives for infrastructure finance


 Type of measure                         Instrument
 Guarantees, realized                    Minimum payment, paid by contracting
 directly by government or               authority Guarantee in case of default
 by its own controlled                   Guarantee in case of refinancing
 agency or development                   Exchange rate guarantees
 bank

 Insurance (private sector)              Wrap insurance, technology
                                         guarantees, warranties, commercial and
                                         political risk insurance
 Hedging (private sector)            Derivatives contracts such as swaps,
                                     forwards, options etc.

 Contract design, paid by            Availability payment mechanisms
 contracting authority               Offtake contracts

 Provision of capital,               Subordinated (junior) debt
 realized directly by
                                     Debt:
 government or by its own
 controlled agency or                    at market condition
 development bank                       at lower interest rate
                                     Equity:
                                         at market conditions
                                         at more advantageous conditions

 Grants, generally                   Lump sum capital grant Revenue grant:
 delivered by contracting
                                         Periodic fixed amount (mitigating the
 authority, even if some
                                         demand risk)
 dedicated fund at national
 level may exist. Tax                    Revenue integration (it leaves the
 incentives can be                       demand risk on the private player)
 delivered by national or            Grant on debt interests Favourable
 local authorities                   taxation schemes for special purpose
                                     vehicle Favourable taxation schemes for
                                     equity investors


Source: Both tables reproduced from OECD (2015), Infrastructure Financing Instruments and
Incentives, with permission.

  As far as currency fluctuations are concerned, hedging techniques
can possibly transform uncertainties into certainty in cash flow
valuation, but what about country risks and currency risks when
hedging is not available? There are two fundamental approaches for
taking this type of risk into consideration: adjusting the cash flows or
adjusting the cost of capital:

1    Cash flow adjustment, also known as adjusted present value
    (APV), is a technique in which:
    • specific downside adverse risks are identified
    • their impact on the cash flow is calculated
    • the probability of their occurrence is determined
    • cash flows are adjusted using the probabilistic distribution
    •    cash flows are translated into the investor’s currency using
      purchasing power parity (PPP) differences as a proxy for
      currency fluctuations
    • cash flows are discounted using the investor’s cost of capital.

Appendix 12.2 gives a simplified example of this method, which is
usually considered the most appropriate technique by financial
theorists.

2    Cost of capital adjustments are applied to the cost of capital by
    introducing a premium risk to the cost of equity. Professor Donald
    Lessard of MIT argues that adjusting the risk premium by
    introducing a ‘country beta’ to the cost of capital is more
    appropriate in the case of investments in emerging countries when
    risks are not diversifiable.2

Project financing
There are two sources of project financing:

•   Generic financing provided by the corporation that uses its global
  equity and debt-financing capabilities
•    Specific equity or debt financing provided by various financial
  institutions.
1  Specific equity project financing is usually provided for projects
  in emerging countries by development banks. Equity for projects in
  industrialized market economies is financed through normal market
  mechanisms, either public (stock exchange), private (venture
  capital) or directly by the corporation using its global financing
  capabilities. The major development banks that provide equity
  financing are listed in Appendix 12.3.
2 Debt project financing is provided by banking institutions,
  development banks, government aid, or suppliers’ credits. When
  provided by banks or suppliers’ credits, debt financing is backed by
  credit risk insurance. When projects are structured as joint
  ventures, financing can also come from local institutions and
  governments.

   In some countries in which Islam is practised the rules of Islamic
finance may also apply via specialized institutions3 (see Insert 12.2).


    Insert 12.2 Notes on Islamic finance
    Islamic finance offers financial products that comply with Sharia
    principles. Sharia (the ‘Way’) is the set of laws derived from the
    Quran. Applied to finance, Sharia prohibits 1) the charging of
    interest on loans and 2) the financing of prohibited activities
    (haram) such as pornography, alcohol, pork-based food
    businesses or gambling. To satisfy the first requirement Islamic
    banking institutions offer a variety of products that are essentially
    structured as capital investments whose remuneration depends
    on the risky returns of the underlying activities. As far as the
    second requirement goes, questions of interpretation and
    enforcement depend on the opinion of the boards of directors of
    the institutions.



Global capital structure
The major financing issue for a global company is to decide where to
generate equity and debt financing, and in what proportion. The overall
objective is to minimize the cost of capital in order to enhance the
value creation capabilities of the company. When the cost of capital
of a company decreases, the value of the company increases.
Finance theory tells us that the cost of capital, both equity and debt, is
a function of macroeconomic factors as well as the systematic risk
incurred by the company. Finance theory makes a distinction between
unsystematic risks (that can be diversified) and systematic risks (that
cannot be diversified). Unsystematic risks can be reduced by
diversification: a global firm reduces its unsystematic risks by having a
portfolio of investments across countries, but cannot avoid the inherent
risks of investing in a particular country owing to the political and
economic situation of that country (systematic risks). Since in a global
economy different countries have different macroeconomic outlooks
and different risk profiles, and different institutions to manage them,
you can expect the cost of capital to be different from country to
country, giving an opportunity to optimize your portfolio of financial
sources in order to minimize cost. This creates the possibility of
crosslisting and international bond issues.
   In a purely global world in which free trade and free movement of
capital, people and goods as well as market-based institutions
prevailed, such international portfolio optimization would not exist:
there would be one single capital market. The capital markets would
be integrated and raising money in the United States, in Europe or
Japan would cost the same. But since the world is not fully global, at
least in the early twenty-first century, capital markets are still different
in their structure, costs and risks, and are fragmented. Fragmentation
can be observed in two ways. First, you can compare the cost of
capital between countries. Academic researchers have found that the
cost of capital has historically differed but has tended to converge, at
least in the industrialized world (see Insert 12.3). Comparisons
between indices of various stock markets show some high positive
correlations among industrialized markets (see Table 12.3), except in
Japan and France which show little significant correlation with the rest
of the world. Emerging markets tend to correlate among themselves.
   Insert 12.3 Academic research on
   international differences in the cost of capital
   McCauley and Zimmer (1994) found that there were different
   costs of capital between Japan, Germany, USA and UK for the
   period between 1978 and 1992.
     A study by René Stulz (1999) found that the effect of
   globalization on the decrease in cost of capital is significant but
   small. For globalization to reduce the cost of capital, the
   shareholder base has to become truly global.

Table 12.3 Correlation coefficients of monthly returns for selected stock markets, 1 January
2016 to 1 March 2021




Note: Correlation coefficients in bold are the ones above 0.60 showing a rather strong
covariance.

Source: Authors’ own table and calculations, based on monthly returns data from Yahoo
Finances, https://finance.yahoo.com/world-indices (accessed 1 February 2022).


Crosslisting
Crosslisting occurs when a firm lists its equity shares on one or more
foreign stock exchanges besides its home country exchange. There
are many reasons for a company to crosslist. Four proposed benefits
are:

•   The ability for a company to reach a wider investor base, which
  can potentially boost demand and hence liquidity for its shares.
  Increased demand for a company’s stock may increase the share
  price, which can lower the cost of capital.
• The creation of a secondary market for the company’s shares and
  recognition of the company in a new capital market, thus paving the
  way for the firm to source new equity or debt capital from local
  investors as demands dictate.
•    As a secondary effect, projecting the company’s name and its
  products in the foreign country where it is listed.
•      By widening the investor base, there is potential for protection
    from a hostile takeover of the firm.

   Crosslisting also raises some concerns. The company incurs costs
in order to comply with the disclosure and listing requirements required
by the foreign exchange and regulatory authorities. Secondly, the
volatility of the stock in one stock market can affect the volatility of the
same stock selling in another stock market. Crosslisting also provides
an easy means for foreign investors to purchase a company’s stock,
which can potentially lead to a foreign investor challenging the
domestic control of the company. Table 12.4 summarizes the country
distribution of listed companies for various stock exchanges.
Table 12.4 Regional distribution of domestic and foreign listed companies for various stock
exchanges, 2021
Source: Compiled by authors from World Federation of Exchanges members:
https://focus.world-exchanges.org/issue/march-2021/market-statistics (accessed 1 February
2022).

Since 2015 the number of foreign listed companies in the world has
increased from 2,704 to 3,976 in 2021 while the total number of listed
companies went from 45,740 to 57,609. The increase in foreign listed
companies came essentially from the Shenzhen and Shanghai Stock
exchanges dominated by domestic listing.

International bond market
The international bond market is another way in which multinationals
can source new debt capital. When markets are imperfect,
international financing can lower the firm’s cost of capital – for
instance, Eurobond financing is usually cheaper than domestic bond
financing.
   The international bond market offers foreign bonds, Eurobonds and
global bonds, which compete with domestic bonds for funding:

•    A foreign bond issue is offered by a foreign borrower and the
  foreign bond issue is denominated in the local currency of the buyer
  of the bonds.
•    A Eurobond issue is denominated in a currency foreign to the
  buyer – a German borrower issues a dollar-denominated bond to
  investors in the UK, for instance.
•     A global bond issue is an offering by a single borrower to
  investors in North America, Europe and Asia.

Table 12.5 is a summary of various types of bond instrument.
Table 12.5 Types of international bond


    Types of bond        Brief description              Payoff at maturity
    Straight fixed       Fixed annual coupon payment Currency of issue
    rate                 as a percentage of the face
                         value of the bond

    Floating rate        Coupon payments which are      Currency of issue
    note                 indexed to some reference,
                         such as three-month US
                         dollar LIBOR*

    Convertible          Allows investors to exchange   Currency of issue
    bond                 a bond for a predetermined     or conversion to
                         number of equity shares of     equity shares
                         the issuer
 Bond with             Straight fixed-rate bond with Currency of issue
 equity warrants       an additional call option that
                       allows the bondholder to
                       purchase equity shares under
                       specified conditions

 Zero coupon           Sold at a discount from face   Currency of issue
 bond                  value No coupon payments
                       over its life

 Dual currency         Straight fixed-rate bonds      Dual currency
 bond                  issued and coupon paid in
                       one currency but principal
                       repaid in another currency

 Composite             Denominated in currency        Composite
 currency bond         basket instead of single       currency of issue
                       currency

Note: * LIBOR = London Inter-Bank Offered Rate.


Benefits of raising debt globally
Global bond offerings widen the borrower’s opportunities for financing
at reduced cost, because with increased liquidity in global bonds,
investors are willing to accept lower yields. With an increased pool of
investors, global bonds also promote sources of financing.

Concerns with raising debt globally
A company may need to satisfy additional security regulations (e.g.
information disclosure) required by overseas regulatory bodies.
International bond market credit ratings
Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s (S&P) provide
credit ratings on various types of international bond. Bond issues are
classified into categories based upon the creditworthiness of the
borrower. Potential bond ratings include investment grade, speculative
grade or a grade which indicates a default risk.
   Ratings providers assess the company’s default probability based
on current information and details of debt obligation. The ratings
reflect only creditworthiness (not exchange rate uncertainty) and they
are the result of an analysis of three factors:

•     Likelihood of default and compliance with timely payment of
  interest and principal repayment
• Nature and provision of debt obligation
•    Protection afforded by, and relative position of, obligation in the
  event of bankruptcy, reorganization or other arrangement under the
  laws of bankruptcy and other laws affecting creditors’ rights. There
  are a disproportionate percentage of international bonds which have
  high credit ratings when compared to domestic bonds. This can be
  explained by the fact that the Eurobond market is accessible only to
  firms that have good credit ratings and reputations.


Development finance
After the Second World War, following the Bretton-Wood conference,
the World Bank was created to participate in the reconstruction of
Europe. It was later expanded to the development across the globe by
providing financing to public investments. This was the first
International Financing Institution (IFI). Over the years multiple IFIs
were created as well as Development Finances Institutions (DFIs)
specializing in providing financing to the private sector in the
developing world. For instance the World Bank created the
International Finance Corporation for that purpose.
   One may distinguish two kinds of DFIs: multilateral and bilateral
(Tables 12.6 and 12.8). Multilateral DFIs are private sector arms of
international financial institutions (IFIs) that have been established by
more than one country, and hence are subject to international law.
Their shareholders are generally national governments but could also
occasionally include other international or private institutions. These
institutions finance projects in support of the private sector mainly
through equity investments, long-term loans and guarantees. They
usually have a greater financing capacity than bilateral development
banks and also act as a forum for close co-operation among
governments (see Table 12.6).
Table 12.6 List of the main multinational DFIs


 AFDB (African Development                       IDB (Inter-American Development
 Bank)                                           Bank)
 ADB (Asian Development                          IFC (International Finance
 Bank)                                           Corporation), a subsidiary of the
                                                 World Bank
 EBRD (European Bank for
 Reconstruction and                              ISDB (Islamic Development Bank)
 Development)
                                                 NDB (New Development Bank), ex-
 EIB (European Investment                        BRICS’s Development Bank
 Bank)


Bilateral DFIs are set up in one country to implement foreign
development and cooperation policy. They are either independent
institutions, such as the Netherlands Development Finance Company
(FMO), or part of larger bilateral development banks, such as the
German Investment and Development Company (DEG), which is part
of the German development bank KfW. They are both among the
largest DFIs worldwide (see Table 12.7).
Table 12.7 The main bilateral DFIs


 OeEB (Austria)                  AFD/Proparco               COFIDES (Spain)
                              (France)
 BIO (Belgium)                                           Swedfund (Sweden)
 BMI-SBI (Belgium)            KfW/DEG                    SIFEM (Switzerland)
                              (Germany)
 FinDev Canada                                           CDC Group (United
 (Canada)                     CDP/SIMEST                 Kingdom)
                              (Italy)
 IFU (Denmark)                                           OPIC (United States)
                              FMO (Netherlands)
 Finnfund (Finland)
                              Norfund (Norway)
                              SOFID (Portugal)

Source: OECD: https://www.oecd.org/development/development-finance-institutions-private-
sector-development.htm (accessed 1 February 2022).

The BRICS’s Development Bank (NDB) established in 2012 was
renamed New Development Bank in 2014. It aims to provide financing
to infrastructure and sustainable development projects in the BRICS
countries. The Bank’s membership is open to members of the United
Nations and its original members were Brazil, Russia, India, China and
South Africa. NDB admitted its first new member countries in 2021
with Bangladesh in September followed by United Arab Emirates in
October.

Sovereign funds
Sovereign Wealth Funds (SWFs) ‘are public investment vehicles that
manage part of states’ wealth due to the accumulation of exchange
reserves by central banks linked with growing trade surplus and the
constant rise of oil prices. These public funds invest internationally like
other private investors in equity, bonds and real estate.4
   According to a 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers report, total assets
from sovereign funds grew from $5,500 billion in 2007 to $15,000
billion in 2020.5
   Table 12.8 provides a list of the ten largest sovereign wealth funds
by total assets.
  SWFs do not borrow money or sell stock to the public, they incur neither a cost of debt nor
  a cost of equity, which potentially allows SWFs to demand a lower rate of return on their
  investments compared to a private or publicly listed fund.6

Table 12.8 Top ten largest sovereign wealth fund rankings by total assets


 Rank               Fund                                            Total assets (US$
                                                                    bn)
 1                  Norway Government Pension                       $1,323
                    Fund Global

 2                  China Investment Corporation                    $1,045

 3                  Hong Kong Monetary Authority                    $580
                    Investment

 4                  Abu Dhabi Investment Authority                  $579

 5                  Kuwait Investment Authority                     $533

 6                  GIC Private Limited (Singapore)                 $453

 7                  Temasek Holdings (Singapore)                    $417

 8                  Public Investment Fund (Saudi                   $399
                    Arabia)

 9                  National Council for Social                     $372
                    Security Fund (China)

 10                 Investment Corporation of Dubai                 $301


Source: Institute Fund Summit 2021 Earth Day Event, https://www.swfinstitute.org/fund-
rankings (accessed 3 November 2021).
Targeted financing
Some financing initiatives have been developed to facilitate
investments and developments with some specific objectives.

Green financing

Green financing is financing of investments that provide environmental
benefits. The areas covered by this type of financing are targeted to:

•   Energy efficiency, renewable energies
•   Environmental protection
•   Green products, materials, building
•   Sustainable agriculture, forestry
•   Transport (urban rail/metro, electric, hybrid)
•   Waste management (recycling, waste management)
•   Water efficiency, wastewater treatment
•   Conservation, biosystem adaptation
•   Carbon capture and storage.

According to an OECD report institutional investors held 1.04 trillions
in infrastructure assets out of which 314 billion are attributed to green
infrastructure. The green technology and sustainability market is
predicted to grow from $11.2 billion in 2020 to $36.6 billion by 2025,
at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 26.6 per cent.7

Inclusive financing

Inclusive financing’s objective is to provide individuals and businesses
that have difficulties in opening banking services ‘to have access to
useful and affordable financial products and services that meet their
needs – transactions, payments, savings, credit and insurance –
delivered in a responsible and sustainable way’.8 Inclusive finance is
essentially geared to the domestic population, including small
businesses.

Venture capital

Venture capital is a type of financing where private investors,
investment banks, financial institutions and corporations target start-up
companies and small businesses with long-term potential. An estimate
from OECD valued the invested venture capital amounted to Start-up
and other early stages at around $60 billion.9 An example of corporate
venture capital is provided by Intel.

Cryptocurrencies
Cryptocurrencies are a form of digital money, that is, transacted by
individuals on a peer-to-peer basis through a coded mechanism
(‘crypted’) using a denomination (e.g. Bitcoin) different from official
currencies (dollars, pounds, euros, yen etc.). According to the creator
of Bitcoin this type of currency
   ‘allows online payments to be sent directly from one party to
another without going through a financial institution’.10 The value of
those currencies is not guaranteed by central banks or by any
organization. The guarantee of the currency is based on complex
systems of internet-based mathematical procedures such as
distributed ledgers and blockchains. Each transaction is registered on
a file that only the individuals participating to the transaction can
access. Since there is no official institution granting its value the
cryptomoney price when translated into official currency is the result of
market transactions made by the players in the market, hence its high
volatility. Contrary to corporate shares quoted on stock exchanges
whose value is based on economic anticipation, the value of
cryptocurrencies is based only on the amount of money that
cryptocurrencies holders want to sell and the amount of money that
buyers want to put to purchase it.
   Cryptocurrencies can be used for commercial transactions or for
speculative investment. The number of cryptocurrencies available is
limited, hence its volatility, as illustrated below:
   25 January 2021 = $32,900
   22 February 2021 = $48,233
   29 March 2021 = $58,300
   26 April 2021 = $55,682
   24 May 2021 = $37,287
   Figure 12.3 shows Bitcoin’s price evolution from January 2021 to
May 2021.




Figure 12.3 Bitcoin price (January–May 2021)

  The two main cryptocurrencies are Bitcoin and Ethereum.
  A technical note explaining cryptocurrencies in more detail is
available in Appendix 12.3.
  A fictional example is given in Insert 12.4.


   Insert 12.4 The tale of a Bitcoin transaction
   Fredrich Herman is the CEO of a medium-sized company
   specializing in machines for the butchery industry at a price of
€50,000. One of his customers based in Turkey wants to use
Bitcoin as the currency of transaction.
   Friedrich went to the web and opened a Bitcoin wallet through
one of the platforms available (e.g. Enterprise Wallet Solution,
Exodus, Trust wallet etc.). Once he is properly registered and
has paid a fee to the platform he is given a wallet with a code
known only to himself. When the contract is signed on 17
February 2021, the €50,000 will be valued at 1.18 Btc at the rate
of the Bitcoin on the day of signature (on 17 February 2021, 1
Btc = €42,300).11 When the machine is delivered on 18 April 2021
(1 Btc = €46,800) his Bitcoin account will be credited at the price
of the contract of 1.18 Btc in a secure transaction that nobody
knows because it is encrypted with a code that only the buyers
and himself know. This transaction is registered in a ledger to
which nobody can access, and the ledger is the proof that the
payment has been done. In this case, Fredrich is happy since if
he can sell his 1.18 Btc on the Bitcoin market on the day of the
receipt and he will receive 1.18 × 46,800 = €55,200 (minus fees)
for a profit of €5,200.
   However, Friedrich has seen the evolution of the Bitcoin and is
interested in investing his Bitcoin until he needs cash by the end
of May. On 30 May he sells his 1,18 Btc and receives €28,900
(on 30 May 2021, 1 Btc = €28,900). Alas he is now with a deficit
of €21,100. Obviously Friedrich could have had the possibility to
hedge on Bitcoin using various methods: short-selling, hedging
with CDF or hedging with future.

Question:

What advantage is there to using Bitcoin instead of bank
transfer?
Source: https://www.ig.com/en/trading-strategies/how-to-hedge-bitcoin-risk-
190726#hedgingbitcoinwithcfdsandspreadbets (accessed 1 February 2022).
Trade finance
In addition to the classic financial facilities that exporters and
importers can obtain in their respective countries from their banks,
financing for international trade can take three forms:

•   Documentary credit that benefits exporters of goods.
•  Credit facilities offered to importers and exporters by export credit
  agencies that also mitigate the risks of exporters.
• Countertrade deals that ease the cash outflow of exporters.


Documentary credit
For exporters of goods, the most traditional method of trade finance is
the documentary credit represented in Figure 12.4. The principle is
that an importer of goods mandates his bank to issue a letter of credit
that guarantees the exporter that they will be paid on receipt of
shipping documents, establishing proof that the goods have actually
been delivered to the transport company. The exporter can ask the
importer’s bank, through its own bank, to accept a time draft for the
amount of the contract by issuing a Bank Acceptance (B/A). The
exporter can discount this acceptance. Figure 12.4 gives a step-by-
step simplified view of this process. There is a large variety of terms
regulating the transactions and delineating the respective
responsibilities of the exporters and the importers. Those terms,
known as Incoterms, are defined by the International Chambers of
Commerce (ICC) based in Paris.
Figure 12.4 Documentary credit in international trade
Note: B/A = Bank acceptance; L/C = Letter of credit application.


Export credit agencies
Exporters, and sometimes importers, of goods can benefit from
credits granted through export credit agencies such as the Eximbank
(Export–Import Bank) backed by the Federal Credit Insurance
Association (FCIA) in the United States, the ECGD (Export Credits
Guarantee Department) in the UK or the Compagnie Française
d’Assurance pour le Commerce Extérieur (COFACE) in France.
  These agencies either provide credits directly or facilitate the
granting of credits from banks or from the exporter’s bank to
importers by covering political risks and commercial risks up to a
certain percentage of the contract.
  In addition, these institutions may grant facilities to exporters to
obtain prefinancing of their exports in contracts of long duration.
  Appendix 12.5 has a list of export credit agencies in different OECD
member countries.

Countertrade
Countertrade is another way of financing international transactions. It
eases the pain for importers who have to find cash in hard currencies
to pay for their imports. The principle of countertrade is that the buyer
pays the total or part of the contract in products or services.
Countertrade can take three main forms:12

•   Barter trade, the most direct form of countertrade. The exporter is
  paid in products coming from the importer’s country.
•   Buyback contracts, in which the supplier of equipment agrees to
  buy part of the output of the exporter’s facilities. In this case, there
  is cash outlay on both sides but the importer recoups its investment
  from the cash generated by the sales of products. A variant of
  buyback is known as a counterpur-chase contract, in which the
  products sold to the exporter come from a third party.
• Bilateral clearing agreements, which exist at government level, are
  when two governments agree to trade, and the debit and credit of
  the trade are registered in an account whose balance is cleared at
  the end of an agreed period. In some cases, the balance can be
  ‘sold’ to a third party that can use it for purchasing goods in the
  debtor’s country. This last arrangement is known as switch trade.

Countertrade agreements mostly involve developing countries that are
short of hard currency. They were common practice in the era of
state-controlled economies in communist countries until the early
1990s, but have decreased in importance with the liberalization of
markets.
Global financial management and taxation
As indicated in Chapter 4, some global companies can use their multi-
country presence to adjust their financial policies – to play with the
differences in taxes between countries in order to minimize their tax
exposure. Contractor (2016) describes seven methods of tax
avoidance (see Chapter 4). In 2016 the European Commission
imposed a penalty of €14 billion on Apple Corporation, arguing that the
company benefited from Ireland’s low tax rate of 1 per cent on profits
achieved in the rest of Europe instead of paying at the already low
official 12.5 per cent rate. The EU Commission’s argument is that
Apple effectively benefited from a government subsidy such as is
forbidden in the EU. In April 2021 at the G7 Summit in Cornwall the
participants agreed that a minimum global tax rate of at least 15 per
cent would be applicable to multinational companies (MNCs). It was
also decided that countries could tax the largest MNCs for profits
generated in countries where they operate. This particular provision
targets the companies operating through the internet such as Apple
Music, Amazon and Google who had been benefiting from tax
optimization though the transfer of profit in low taxation counties like
Ireland or Holland.




  MINI-CASE 12.1

  Cleanwater in Vietnam

  Cleanwater Inc. is an Australian public company involved in water
  treatment projects.
     In early 2020 it was involved in negotiations with the provincial
  government of Da Nang in Vietnam.
     Following the negotiation a proposed contract was submitted,
  as summarized below:
•    Cleanwater will build a water treatment plant of 300,000 cubic
    metres/day capacity and serving 1 million people, via a joint
    venture company created with the Da Nang Water Supply
    Company (to put in a 10 per cent stake), and a private local
    conglomerate, the Jade Group (30 per cent stake), with
    Cleanwater holding 60 per cent of the capital. The joint venture
    operates as a conces-sion of the project under a BOT
    contract.
•       The capital cost is estimated at $55 million of imported
    equipment and services plus 115 billion Vietnamese dong
    (VND) of local costs (rate of exchange is 23,000 VND to the
    dollar).
•    The financing of the project is:
    — Shareholders: $30 million
    — New Development Bank (ex-BRIC Development Bank): 10-
        year loan of $10 million, with interest of 6 per cent,
        repayable in six instalments after the fourth year.
    — Export credit from EFIC, the Australian export credit
        agency: Spain: 8-year loan of $15 million, with interest at 3
        per cent, refundable after the second year
    — Asian Development Bank: local currency 10-year loan of
        184 billion VND, with interest at 8 per cent, repayable
        straight after 10 years.
•     The contributions of shareholders to the joint venture are the
    following:
    — Cleanwater: $18 million cash
    — Da Nang Water Supply Company: $3 million cash
    — The Jade group, a local conglomerate: $8 million.
•     The cost of operations and maintenance without depreciation
    and financing is estimated at 27,800 VND/m3 plus 200 billion
    VND.
It has been agreed that the joint venture will charge for water at
34,500 VND/m.3

Questions:

1   What are the risks in this project for Cleanwater?
2   What do you think of the financing of the project?
3    Cleanwater shareholders request a 15 per cent return on
    risky environments. Will they approve this project?

Summary and key points
1   There are four key issues in global financial management:
    a  Currency risk: exposure and hedging against currency
    fluctuations
  b Project finance: how to evaluate international investments
    and how to finance them
  c Capital markets: how to take advantage of global financial
    market to raise equity and handle debts
  d     Trade finance: financing exports/imports of goods and
    services
2 Currency fluctuations and hedging
    Currency fluctuations can affect the economic value of
    companies that operate globally in three ways:
      • Strategic exposure:
         —     Change in competitive advantage of a company in
             terms of future cash flow owing to
             increased/decreased costs arising from changes in
             currency values
         —       Hedging techniques include:
             ○               strategic product   positioning   through
                  differentiation
        ○      geographical positioning: balancing operations
            within exchange
        ○         sourcing in low-cost countries and strong
            currencies
•    Transaction exposure:
    —     Positive or negative changes in short-term cash
        flows. Hedging techniques include:
        ○    Forward contracts: buying at a fixed future date a
           fixed quantity of a given currency at a fixed
           exchange rate
        ○    Future contracts: in recognized futures markets
        ○      Options contracts: acquire an option to sell (put
            option) or to buy (call option) a currency at a given
            rate
        ○        Currency swaps: the two companies, having
            borrowed in different currencies, can swap their
            loans
        ○       Leading and lagging: collect receivables early
            (leading) or delay (lagging) according to the
            strength of the nominated currencies
•    Netting:
    — Centralized cash management among subsidiaries
    offsetting cash positions
 — Bilateral netting, netting between pairs of
    subsidiaries; multilateral netting, netting of all
    transactions and transfer of the net to a central
    account
• Translation exposure:
    —  Currency movement affects valuation of
      assets/liabilities of global companies
    — Two main methods of adjusting financial statements:
        ○   Monetary/non-monetary method
                ○   Current method
3   Project finance
    a    International project finance deals with the valuation and
      financing of productive investments in countries outside the
      investor’s country of origin
    b Project valuation and financing are affected by three types
      of risk:
        •   Political and regulatory risks
        •   Macroeconomic and business risks
        •   Technical risks
c    Project valuation: two approaches are available to take into
    account country risks and currency risks that are not
    diversifiable:
        •     Cash flow adjustments (APV-adjusted present value)
          cash flows are adjusted according to probability of risks
        •       Cost of capital adjustments (CCA) introduces a
          premium risk to the cost of equity
    d Specific project financing:
        •   Equity project financing:
            — For developing countries, equity project finance is
            usually provided by development banks
        — For industrialized market economies, equity project
            finance is usually provided by development banks
      •        Debt project financing – provided by banking
        institutions, development banks, government aid or
        supplier credits
4   Global capital structure
    a   Integrated capital markets: cost of equity and debts is
      equivalent across stock exchanges
    b   Fragmented capital markets: cost of equity is equivalent
      across stock exchanges. Allows companies to benefit from
        crosslisting and international bond issues
        •   Crosslisting
            —       Advantages:
                ○     Wider investor base
                ○      Creating a secondary market for the company’s
                     shares
                ○     Projecting the company’s name and products
                ○       Some protection from hostile takeover with a
                     widened investor base
            —       Disadvantages:
                ○     Costs of compliance
                Volatility in one stock market can affect volatility in
                ○

               another market
            ○      Foreign investors can challenge the domestic
               control of the company
        • International bond issues
         — Benefits:
            ○   Means of financing at lower cost
            ○   Promotes diversified investor base
            ○   Financing of overseas subsidiaries
         — Disadvantages:
               Additional security regulations
                ○

5   Trade finance
    a   Documentary credit: an importer of goods mandates their
      bank to issue a letter of credit that guarantees that the
      exporter will be paid on receipt of shipping documents.
      Credit facilities offered by export credit agencies to
      importers and exporters
    b Countertrade deals: the buyer pays the total or part of the
      contract in products or services
    c     Barter trade: exporter is paid in products coming from the
        importer’s country
    d  Buybacks: supplier of equipment agrees to buy part of the
      output of the exporter
    e    Bilateral clearing agreements: governmental level when
      two governments agree to trade and the debit and credit of
      the trade is registered in an account whose balance is
      cleared at the end of the agreed period

Learning assignments
1    What are the three types of risk that a global company is
    exposed to as a consequence of currency fluctuations?
2    On 14 January 2002 it was announced that the US carrier
    JetBlue would buy ten Airbus 320 aircraft for $500 million. The
    planes were to be delivered over four years (two in 2002, two
    in 2003, three each in 2004 and 2005). Airbus incurs 70 per
    cent of its cost in euros. What can Airbus Industries do to
    cover its currency fluctuation risks?
3    In the UK referendum on EU membership in June 2016, why
    were most major British financial institutions against Brexit?
4    What are the benefits and problems for a Japanese firm
    being listed on the New York Stock Exchange?
5    Why is the adjusted present value (APV) method preferred to
    the cost of capital adjustment (CCA) method in valuing
    international projects?
6    How can a company deal with strategic exposure?
7   What is a letter of credit?
8  Why are the correlation coefficients between stock market
  returns so high (Table 12.3)?
9 What type of global financial management tools would a
  global firm have used to counteract the adverse impacts of the
   1997 Asian financial crisis?
10 The central finance function is one of the central corporate
   functions of a conglomerate. Do you foresee a trend towards
   the formation of a global swapping bank account? What are
   the pros and cons of implementing such a financial tool?
11 Can companies take advantage of favourable exchange or tax
   rates to make purchases in different currencies/countries?
12 Name six commodity products which have forward and futures
   trades. Can you think of a commodity product not related to
   natural resources which has forward and futures trades?
13 When a global company originates from a country that may
   not have a sound financial system (e.g. Argentina), should its
   overseas offices/subsidiaries hedge their local currencies
   against the currency of the head office or hedge it against a
   foreign currency (e.g. USD), which is less prone to be affected
   by significant devaluations?
14 Why do you think the Japanese stock market, as shown in
   Table 12.3, has not correlated to other markets?

Key words
•   Adjusted present value country risk (APV)
•   Cost of capital adjustment (CCA)
•   Country stock market beta
•   Crosslisting
•   Cryptocurrencies
•   Currency swaps
•   Documentary credit
•   Export credit agencies
•   Forward contracts
•   Futures contracts
•   Hedging
•   Leading and lagging
•   Netting
•   Options
•   Project valuation
•   Strategic exposure
•   Transaction exposure
•   Translation exposure

Web resources
Euromoney:
http://www.euromoney.com
Global Capital:
http://www.globalcapital.com/
International Monetary Fund (IMF):
https://www.imf.org/en/Home
UNCTAD publications:
https://unctad.org/publications

Notes
1   See Eun and Resnick (2001); Eiteman et al. (2015); Hawawini and Viallet (2015);
   Madura (2015).
2 Lessard (1996).
3 Anwar and Millar (2008).
4 Amar (2016).
5 PricewaterhouseCoopers (2020).
6 Surendranath, Perry and Hemphill (2010).
7 OECD (2020).
8 https://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/financialinclusion/overview (accessed 1February
   2022).
9 https://stats.oecd.org/Index.aspx?DataSet-Code=VC_INVEST (accessed 1 February
   2022).
10 Nakamoto (2008).
11 https://bitflyer.com/fr-eu/bitcoin-chart (accessed 1 February 2022.
12 See Hennart (1989: 243–70).
References and further reading
Amar, J. (2016) ‘Sovereign Wealth Funds: major actors in the Global Economy’, Aix-
   Marseille University. Unpublished dissertation.
Ammer, J. and Mei, J. (1996) ‘Strategic returns to international diversification’, European
   Financial Management, 1 (1).
Anwar, H. and Millar, R. (2008) Islamic Finance: A Guide for International Business and
   Investment (London: GMB Publishing).
Bailey, W., Chung, P. Y. and Kang, J. (1999) ‘Foreign ownership restrictions and equity
   price premiums: what drives the demand for cross-border investments?’, Journal of
   Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 34 (4): 489–511.
Bank for International Settlements (2015) ‘Digital currencies’, Committee on Payment and
   Market Infrastructure. https://www.bis.org/cpmi/publ/d137.pdf (accessed 1 February
   2022).
Botta, A., Tunon, A., Reema, J. and Mar, A. (2021) ‘Reconceiving the global trade finance
   ecosystem’, McKinseyReport. https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/financial-
   services/our-insights/reconceiving-the-global-trade-finance-ecosystem (accessed 1
   February 2022).
Contractor, F. (2016) ‘Tax avoidance by multinational companies: methods, policies, and
   ethics’, Rutgers Business Review, 1 (1): 27–43.
Eiteman, D., Stonehill, A. and Moffett, M. (2015) Multinational Business Finance, Global
   Edition, 14th edn (New York, NY: Pearson Higher Education).
Eun, C. S. and Resnick, B. G. (2001) International Finance Management, 2nd edn (New
   York, NY: McGraw-Hill).
European Central Bank (2012) ‘Virtual currency schemes’.
   https://www.ecb.europa.eu/pub/pdf/other/virtualcurrencyschemes201210en.pdf
   (accessed 1 February 2022).
European Parliament (2018) ‘Cryptocurrencies and blockchain: legal context and
   implication for financial crime, money laundering and tax evasion’.
   https://www.europarl.europa.eu/cmsdata/150761/TAX3%20Study%20on%20cryptocurr
   encies%20and%20blockchain.pdf (accessed 1 February 2022).
Foss, N. J., Mudambi, R. and Murtinu, S. (2019) ‘Taxing the multinational enterprise: on
   the forced redesign of global value chains and other inefficiencies’, Journal of
   International Business Studies, 50 (9): 1644–55.
Giddy, I. (1994) Global Financial Markets (Lexington, MA: D.C. Heath).
Hawawini, G. and Viallet, C. (1999, 2011, 2015, 2019) Finance for Executives: Managing
   for Value Creation (Cincinnati, OH: South Western Publishing).
Hennart, J. F. (1989) ‘Some empirical dimensions of counter trade’, Journal of
   International Business Studies, 21 (2): 243–70.
Hicks, C. and Reeth, R. (2021) ‘7 of the best cryptocurrencies to invest in now’, 10 May.
   https://money.usnews.com/investing/cryptocurrency/slideshows/whats-the-best-
   cryptocurrency-to-buy?slide=2 (accessed 1 February 2022).
International Finance Corporation (2001) Project Finance in Developing Countries:
   Lessons from Experience, 7.
Lessard, D. (1996) ‘Incorporating country risks in the valuation of offshore projects’,
   Journal of Applied Corporate Finance, 9 (3): 52–63.
Madura, J. (2015) International Financial Management, 12th edn (Boston, MA: Cengage
   Learning).
McCauley, R. and Zimmer, S. (1994) ‘Exchange rates and international differences in the
  cost of capital’, in Y. Amihud and R. Levich (eds), Exchange Rates and Corporate
  Performance, 119–219 (Burr Ridge, NY: Irwin).
Nakamoto, S. (2008) ‘Bitcoin: a peer-to-peer electronic cash system’.
  https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf (accessed 8 February 2022).
Natarajan, H., Krause, S. and Gradstein, H. (2017) ‘World Bank Group, Distributed
  Ledger Technology (DLT) and blockchain’, FinTech note, no. 1. Washington, D.C.
  https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/handle/10986/29053 (accessed 8 February
  2022).
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (n.d.) Development
  Finance Institutions and Private Sector Development.
  https://www.oecd.org/development/development-finance-institutions-private-sector-
  development.htm (accessed 1 February 2022).
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (2014) Private
  Financing and Government Support to Promote Long-Term Investments in
  Infrastructure (Paris: OECD).
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (2015) Infrastructure
  Financing Instruments and Incentives (Paris: OECD).
  https://www.oecd.org/finance/private-pensions/Infrastructure-Financing-Instruments-
  and-Incentives.pdf (accessed 1 February 2022).
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (2020) Green
  Infrastructure in the Decade for Delivery: Assessing Institutional Investment.
  https://www.oecd.org/environment/green-infrastructure-in-the-decade-for-delivery-
  f51f9256-en.htm (accessed 1 February 2022).
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (2020) OECD/G20
  Inclusive Framework on BEPS: Progress Report July 2019–July 2020.
  https://www.oecd.org/tax/beps/oecd-g20-inclusive-framework-on-beps-progress-
  report-july-2019-july-2020.htm (accessed 1 February 2022).
PricewaterhouseCoopers (2020) Sovereign Investors 2020: A Growing Force.
  https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/sovereign-wealth-investment-
  funds/publications/assets/sovereign-investors-2020.pdf (accessed 1 February 2022).
Son, H. (2019) ‘JP Morgan is rolling out the first US bank-backed cryptocurrency to
  transform payments business’, CNBC, 14 February.
  https://www.cnbc.com/2019/02/13/jp-morgan-is-rolling-out-the-first-us-bank-backed-
  cryptocurrency-to-transform-payments--.html (accessed 1 February 2022).
Stulz, R. M. (1999) ‘Globalization of equity markets and the cost of capital’, NYSE
  Working Paper, 99-02, February.
Surendranath R. J., Perry, M. J. and Hemphil, T. A. (2010) ‘The role of sovereign wealth
  funds in global financial intermediation’, Thunderbird International Business Review, 52
  (6), Nov/Dec.
Taskinsoy, J. (2019) ‘The transition from barter trade to impediments of the dollar system:
  one nation, one currency, one monopoly’, SSRN Electronic Journal, 6 March.
  https://www.researchgate.net/publication/331559802_The_Transition_from_Barter_Tra
  de_to_Impediments_of_the_Dollar_System_One_Nation_One_Currency_One_Monop
  oly (accessed 1 February 2022).
Yescombe, E. R. (2014) Principles of Project Finance, 2nd edn (Cambridge, MA:
  Academic Press).


Journals
International Finance: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/14682362
International Journal of Finance & Economics:
   https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/10991158
Journal of International Finance Studies: https://jifs-journal.org/JIFS-
   JOURNAL/Default.aspx
Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions & Money:
   https://www.journals.elsevier.com/journal-of-international-financial-markets-institutions-
   and-money
Journal of International Money and Finance: https://www.journals.elsevier.com/journal-of-
   international-money-and-finance
McKinsey Quarterly: https://www.mckinsey.com/quarterly/overview
Chapter 13

Global human resource management




  At the end of the chapter you will be able to:

  •    Appreciate the trade-offs in establishing a policy of reliance
      on expatriate global managers versus local ones
  •     Understand the causes of success and failure of an
    expatriate policy
  • Contribute to the definition of an expatriate policy
  • Contribute to plans for developing local management
  • Participate in the design of global training programmes
  •   Understand the new trends on working from anywhere (WFA)



Introduction
The success of global strategies relies on the quality of the people
who are in charge of their implementation. This chapter addresses
four kinds of managerial issues that a global strategy imposes on
human resources:

•     First, there is a need to adopt a worldwide policy of international
    movement of personnel, differentiating within the pool of managers
    between those who will follow a ‘global’ career from those who will
    follow a ‘local’ career. This is the assignment issue.
•     Second, there is a need to manage the career of the global
    managers. This is the expatriate management issue.
•     Third, there is a need to recruit and motivate local personnel.
    This is the localization issue.
•       Finally, there is the need to develop skills fitted to the
    requirements of global management. This is the global skill
    development issue.

These issues constitute the structure of this chapter (see Figure
13.1).




Figure 13.1 Global human resource issues



EXAMPLE 13.1 Appointing a divisional manager in France
Helvetica Chemical is a Swiss-based multinational company engaged
in pharmaceuticals, agrochemicals, dyestuffs and industrial
chemicals. It operates in more than sixty countries and is organized
as a matrix of product and country divisions. The corporate
headquarters in Basel is staffed with global central function services
establishing and supervising policies in research, IT, legal, personnel
and finance. In each country there is a group company managing
director responsible for the total activities of local divisional units, and
for the overall financial results of the country. Each divisional general
manager has dual reporting: to the group company managing director
(country head) and to the global division director in Basel responsible
for the worldwide performance of the product line.
   In France, the group company managing director, Lucien Boyer,
was about to retire and the corporate headquarters designated
Pierre Jourdan, general manager of the French Pharmaceutical
Division, to replace him. Jourdan’s promotion opened his own position
at the Pharmaceutical Division in France, and the issue was whom to
appoint as his replacement. Two potential candidates were identified.

•    Philippe Dupont, a French national with a doctoral degree in
  pharmacy from Toulouse University, had been recruited two years
  previously from a competitor as marketing manager. He had spent
  his entire career in France and had in-depth experience of the
  French pharmaceutical industry. Since his recruitment to Helvetica,
  he had obtained excellent results. Dupont was Jourdan and
  Boyer’s preferred choice.
•    Michel Garnier, a Canadian from Quebec, who had extensive
  international experience as a marketing manager in Canada, Brazil
  and the United States. He had spent two years in Basel at the
  corporate office in the Strategic Planning Department, and was
  currently managing the Pharmaceutical Division of Helvetica
  Chemical in Morocco, where he too had obtained excellent results.
  Garnier was the preferred choice of the Basel Global
  Pharmaceutical Division.
Whom to appoint?

Answering this question provoked emotional reactions and very
heated debates. For some, it was obvious that Dupont was the best
choice, given his knowledge of the French market, his experience and
the support of the French management structure. For others, Garnier
should be appointed because he would bring a global perspective that
could enrich the French subsidiary and position Helvetica Chemical as
a true global player capable of transcending national barriers. After
the first instinctive reactions, it became obvious that the appointment
decision was more than a pure personnel management issue; it was
really a global strategic issue. In practice, both choices were valid,
but each would convey a fundamentally different message to
employees, competitors and customers. Whichever candidate was
picked, that decision would ‘drive’ the strategy of the company in a
particular dimension.
   Dupont was the perfect choice for a strategic orientation based on
local responsiveness. His French education and experience with the
market made him a perfect choice for the French subsidiary. No
doubt, he would perform well, and Jourdan would be happy to
supervise a colleague with whom he shared the same culture.
   Garnier brought a global perspective and his appointment would be
an opening into the walled city of a national subsidiary. His
international experience would give him the capability to transcend
national cultures and to introduce a truly global corporate mindset.
From an operational point of view, he would bring different methods
and approaches to the French subsidiary.
   The final choice depended upon the strategic orientation that
Helvetica Chemical wanted to give to its global operation. If, from a
competitive viewpoint, there was little advantage to be gained in
adopting cross-border integration, and the prime objective was to let
local subsidiaries focus on their own market, the choice of Dupont
would be the most effective. If, on the contrary, it became
strategically important to adopt a worldwide coordinated strategy,
then it was time to implement a global human resource management
(HRM) approach that fitted with this objective and Garnier would be
the recruit of choice.
  This example illustrates the four kinds of issue presented in Figure
13.1: assignment of personnel, expatriate management, localization
and skills development.
Source: Adapted with permission from the INSEAD case study ‘Ciba-Geigy – management
development’, no. 11/1999-1153 authored by Yves Doz. Copyright © 1999 INSEAD. Revised
Version Copyright © 1983 INSEAD.




Assignment of personnel: the global human
resource wheel
In terms of personnel, a global company can be represented as a
wheel, as in Figure 13.2.
   At the centre is the corporate headquarters, where the board of
directors and the key executives are located alongside the corporate
staff. In many companies, the global business divisions are also
located near the corporate headquarters, although this is not always
the case.
   The outer wheel is made up of the countries in which the company
operates. Countries are staffed with three categories of personnel:

•      Local managers and staff (host-country national, HCN),
  recruited at subsidiary level (the unshaded part of Figure 13.2).
  Their career is essentially within the local companies.
• Global managers (the shaded area in Figure 13.2). Their career
  is made up of successive appointments in different countries.
  Managers in this category are considered ‘expatriates’, although
  this terminology is progressively disappearing, to be replaced by
  the denomination of ‘international’ or ‘global’ managers.
•      Temporary assignees (the arrow in Figure 13.2). These are
    referred as ‘detached’ personnel.
Figure 13.2 The global human resource wheel

   The profile of the human resource wheel is not the same in a
company that has adopted a global strategic position as in a
company that operates in a multi-domestic mode (see Chapter 1).
Figure 13.3 shows the difference between the two models. In a multi-
domestic organization, global managers are relatively few and mostly
from a dominant nationality (that is, the native one of the company).
They move from place to place, generally in the most senior
positions. Local personnel progress within their own subsidiary,
although they may be seconded occasionally to other subsidiaries for
technical support or learning purposes. A global organization will see
a larger number of multi-cultural, global managers moving around.
Those global managers will integrate local personnel aspiring to a
global career, and temporary assignments of local personnel to other
subsidiaries and to headquarters will be more frequent. Cross-cultural
teams generate frequent travel.




Figure 13.3 Human resource wheels


Expatriate management
Expatriate personnel are employees living and working in a non-
native country. They are often grouped into two categories: parent-
country nationals (PCN), whose national origin is the same as that of
the corporate headquarters, and third-country nationals (TCN) whose
country of origin is different from both the corporate headquarters’
and of the host country. An increasing number of TCN over PCN
indicates that firms are moving from a traditional international
management mode toward a global one (Table 13.1). American and
European multinational firms employ a relatively larger number of
TCN than Japanese or Korean corporations.
Table 13.1 The changing nature of international staffing


    Traditional international staffing             Global staffing
    The ‘expatriate’ model                         The ‘global/international
                                                   personnel’ model
    •    Recruitment essentially from              •     Recruitment from all over
        the headquarters home country                  the world (TCN + PCN)
        (PCN)                                      •     More and more local
    •    ‘Expatriate’ compensation                     contracts instead of
        package                                        expatriate packages
    •    Local recruits stay local                 •     Possibilities for locals to
    •    Strong ‘corporate style’                      become global managers
        spreads to the subsidiaries                •    A lot of job rotation
    •    ‘Foreign office’ type of career:          •    A lot of international
        expatriate personnel move                      management development
        from country to country                        programmes
    •    Performance appraisal based               •     Performance appraisals
        on local performance                           include local plus ‘global’ or
                                                       ‘regional’ achievements

Success and failure of expatriation

Numerous studies have shown that expatriate personnel are
confronted with a set of challenges, summarized in Figure 13.4.
Rosalie Tung (1987, 1998), Dickmann et al. (2018) and McNulty and
Brewster (2020) found that the main causes of failure among US
expatriate managers were:

•       Inability of the manager to adapt
•       Inability of the manager’s partner to adapt
•   Family-related problems
•   Manager’s personality or emotional immaturity
•   Manager’s inability to cope with responsibility
•   Manager’s lack of technical competence
•   Manager’s lack of motivation.




Figure 13.4 The expatriate challenges

   Other studies have shown that recognition, understanding and
support of cross-border assignments by central colleagues are
crucial for the success of expatriation.1 The research done on the
topic all shows that extreme expatriate failure, as measured by the
recall rate (i.e. the proportion of assigned personnel who fail to
complete their predetermined contract) is relatively low (around 5 per
cent). However, there are situations in which the assignments are
less than satisfactory for both the firm and the individual manager.
Acculturation

Acculturation is the process by which group members from one
culture adapt to the culture of a different group.2 Acculturation can
result in four different attitudes – the ‘four Fs’ described in Figure
13.5:

•   The flight attitude is adopted by people who want to preserve
  their own cultural identity and, when confronted with a new
  environment, prefer to isolate themselves.
•    The fight attitude bears some similarity to the previous one
  except that, instead of retreating and isolating themselves, the
  individual criticizes the host environment; militant expatriates claim
  the superiority of their own culture.
•   The fit attitude describes people who are capable of immersing
  themselves in the local culture and, at the same time, preserving
  their own culture. They look for contacts with locals, get interested
  in host-country customs, arts and culture. They have a balanced
  perspective between global and local competitive requirements:
  they are ‘cosmopolitan’.
•      The follow attitude indicates excessive willingness to embrace
    local culture and assimilate oneself in the host environment.
    Assimilated expatriates progressively lose contact with the global
    headquarters and perspective, and have difficulty balancing global
    and local requirements.
Figure 13.5 Expatriates’ acculturation: the ‘four Fs’

Both the flyers and the fighters avoid socializing with the local
community and prefer to live in areas solely occupied by expatriates.
For the global corporation, these types of personnel lack the flexibility
to adapt to local conditions: they may be good at defending the global
aspect of business strategies but are poor at local responsiveness.

The expatriate and the company

For the company, the cost of expatriate personnel kicks in at around
two to three times the equivalent position in the ‘home’ country (see
Insert 13.1 and Figure 13.7 for cost elements). It is therefore
necessary for global firms to put in place a coherent set of policies
and practices that optimizes the benefits of expatriation for both the
company and the individuals. Such a policy has six major
components:

•   Strategic vision
•   Selection and preparation
•   Compensation
•   Tenure
•   Support
•   Career follow-up.

Strategic vision

A strategic vision places expatriate assignments within the
framework of the company’s global strategy. Assignment policies
vary according to the global positioning and management style of the
company (Dickmann et al. (2018); McNulty and Brewster (2020)).
Edstrom and Galbraith (1977) identified three modes of transfer
policies:

•      Filling position – the classic policy of expatriation for key
  managers and technical support transfer.
•    Develop manager – a policy designed to utilize international
  postings as an instrument for developing management talents and
  skills.
•    Develop organization – a policy that embraces the ‘transnational’
    management philosophy by which people move around in order to
    develop products and lead marketing campaigns with a view to
    developing the global strategic capabilities of the company.

A company of the ‘multi-domestic’ type from Figure 13.3 will focus
more on the ‘filling position’ policy, while companies of the ‘global’
type will use the three policies conjointly. James Stewart Black and
Hal Gregersen (1999) researched the management of expatriates at
about 750 US, European and Japanese companies in the 1990s and
one of their key conclusions was that: ‘When making international
assignments, companies should focus on knowledge creation and
global leadership development.’ In conclusion: global companies
consider the worldwide movement of personnel as a tool to enhance
their competitiveness through knowledge transfer and leverage of
cross-cultural richness.

Selection and preparation

The selection of expatriates is a function of individual skills as well as
the technical and competitive requirements of the company. Black and
Gregersen conclude that: ‘Successful companies assign overseas
posts to people whose technical skills are matched or exceeded by
their cross-cultural abilities.’3
   Expatriates are required to exhibit what is referred to as contextual
intelligence skills4 that are primarily sociocultural. Figure 13.6 shows
the ranking of skills that managers in Asia Pacific consider conducive
to success.




Figure 13.6 The primary ingredients of individual managerial behaviour required for success in
expatriate assignments in Asia
Note: The percentage is obtained by ranking how often these traits were selected in response
to the question: ‘What do you consider to be the three most important factors for success?’
Source: Authors’, from an unpublished internal report (Lasserre et al. 1997).

   Another study conducted by Günter Stahl on German managers
(2001) revealed that seven factors were critical to success in
international work assignments:
•     Tolerance of ambiguity: the ability to function effectively in a
    foreign environment where expatriates experience ambiguity,
    complexity and uncertainty.
•    Behavioural flexibility: the capacity to vary your behaviour
  according to the immediate requirements of the situation and the
  demands of the foreign culture.
•    Goal orientation: the ability and desire to achieve your task
  goals despite barriers, opposition and discouragement.
•     Sociability and interest in other people: a willingness to
  establish and maintain meaningful social relationships, combined
  with a genuine interest in people.
•      Empathy: the capacity to accurately sense other people’s
  thoughts, feelings and motives, and to respond to them
  appropriately.
•    Ability to be non-judgemental: the willingness to critically re-
  examine your own values and beliefs, and to avoid judging other
  people by your own norms.
•     Meta-communication skills: the capacity to clarify culturally
  different perceptions and to ‘guide’ the intercultural communication
  process.

   The preparation of assignments involves several steps. First, and
most importantly, international assignments must be part of a career
plan, and the objectives of the assignment have to be clearly defined.
If the assignment is only intended to ‘fill a post’, it is probably a one-
off event and the expatriate will be much more concerned about their
future after the expatriation (a classic ‘re-entry problem’) than about
understanding the intricacies of the foreign environment. They, and
their family, need to be informed about and prepared for the specific
differences in living conditions and culture, but the primary concern
remains the ‘re-entry’. If the assignment is a step in an ‘international’
career, the person should have a ‘mapping’ of their future career
development path. Specific research about the foreign environment is
necessary but, over the years and cumulative assignments, this
aspect becomes relatively less important since the international
manager ‘learns to learn’ when in place.
  The second, perhaps rather obvious, step is cultural and logistical
preparation for the employee and the family. Numerous organizations
provide cultural training,5 and most companies subscribe to them.
They usually provide a pre-assignment trip for the expatriate and their
family in order to have first-hand experience of living conditions. Some
companies use short-term assignments or ‘missions’ of several
weeks to immerse the future expatriate into the real working
conditions.
  Assessment centres are the third and probably the least-used step
in assignment preparation. This consists of measuring the future
expatriate’s skills alongside certain predetermined dimensions that
are considered important for the job and the country, and according
to the results, tailoring a certain number of specific programmes
designed to repair any deficiencies. DaimlerChrysler Aerospace ran
such a programme named QUICK.6

Compensation

Classic expatriate contracts involve a series of clauses that, in
addition to the normal remuneration attached to the job, are designed
to compensate for the difference in living conditions and prices, the
obligation for the person/family to change accommodation, pension
systems, health insurance, schooling and cost of living, as well as any
additional economic impacts on the family. Generally, a ‘hardship’
allowance is also granted in the case of countries that have a
significant deficit in security, infrastructure or social/political context.
Insert 13.1 shows two types of typical expatriate package. Figure
13.7 compares the cost of living in various cities of the world. An
expatriate in Tokyo whose salary is based on New York living
standards could expect to have the living standard component of their
salary adjusted by 9 per cent if the rent is paid by the company. In
most cases, housing and children’s education are paid for by the
company. Alternatively, if the same person were based in
Johannesburg where the cost of living is 52 per cent that of New
York, she/he would probably not receive compensation for cost of
living (salary would not be reduced) but probably would receive a
hardship allowance.




Figure 13.7 Selected indices of cost of living excluding rent
Note: base = 100 for New York in 2020 taking into account the impact of Covid-19 pandemic.
Source: Economist Intelligence Unit (2020).


Tenure

The length of expatriate assignments in a given country is a function
of four key factors:

•   The time needed to learn the local rules of business and to build
  relationships with the various parties (customers, employees,
  government officials, partners etc.) with whom the person needs to
  interact.
•     The importance of personal relationships in the job and the
  required continuity of the task (the task of building a new business
  requires more time than, for instance, setting up a factory).
• The contextual hardship of the country (difficult living conditions).
•    The company’s policy with regard to career development.


    Insert 13.1 Typical expatriate packages

    There are two major types of package:

    Home-based package: Employees receive compensation that is
    equivalent to what they would have received in their home
    country. In this case the adjustments are mentioned clearly in
    addition to the base salary. The legal contractual relationship
    stays in the home country.

    Local-based package: Employees receive compensation in line
    with the compensation of equivalent jobs in the host country with
    some adjustment. In that case the adjustments are incorporated
    into the base salary (for instance, the salary would be increased
    to take into account the cost of living difference without being
    mentioned separately). The legal contractual relationship is in the
    host country; the legal contract with the home organization is
    suspended during the assignment tenure.

    The packages may take into consideration the following
    adjustments:

    Accommodation: Allowance to rent a house or apartment in the
    host country considering the local real estate market.

    Car: In addition to a company car the expatriate family can be
    bought a car by the company or a fixed allowance can be added
    to the compensation.

    Education: Allowance to cover tuition fees in international
    schools or local schools accepting foreign students. That
    allowance also may apply to universities.
Compensation for home residential expenses: Compensation
for rental fees in the home country when the expatriate keeps
their rental agreement.

Cost of living adjustment: Additional compensation to cover for
the differences in cost of goods and services in the host country.
Generally applied in one direction: if the cost of living is higher in
the host country the allowance is granted but if the cost of living
is lower there is no negative allowance. The issue for cost of
living allowance is the evaluation of the host country’s costs:
whether it is considered that the expatriate lives like a local
person (buys goods at local markets, for instance) or lives as in
his/ her home country (shops in expensive supermarkets).

Cultural and language training: Payment of tuition fees for
language training and cultural training.

Hardship allowance: Allowance given to compensate for living
in countries considered to be dangerous or subject to hard living
situations such as climatic conditions or remote locations.

Health protection: The company covers health insurance and
repatriation expenses in case of serious health problems,
accidents or urgent or sophisticated treatment.

Installation: Company sources cover costs of moving and
settling in, and of decorating the local accommodation.

Local employees: Payment of salary for servants, gardener,
driver, nurses, if justified.

Pre-assignment visit: One or two trips organized and paid by
the company for the family to visit the future host country.

Retirement: Pension plans are kept at a similar level to those in
the home country. For instance, benefit-based retirement plans
  may be replaced by the equivalent capital-based allowance or
  vice versa.

  Spouse assistance: A job may be provided locally for the
  spouse or the company may help the spouse to find a local job.

  Taxes: Several solutions may apply: a) the company pays the
  local taxes in full; b) the company pays the local taxes but
  calculates what should be the normal tax rate in the home
  country and adjusts for the difference.

  Trips for vacation: The company pays for the family trip to the
  home country for vacations at a predetermined frequency for a
  given airline class. In case of harsh environments, vacation trips
  may be provided at more frequent intervals.
  Sources: U.S. Expatriate Handbook: Guide to Living & Working Abroad (West Virginia
  University, 2007); Making Choices: The Expatriate Package. RH Expat (2010); Expatica
  Communications B.V. (2010), http://www.expatica.com; plus authors’ own research.




Given that in most cases acculturation – the process of getting
acquainted with the other culture – takes three–twelve months, and
that a managerial job requires at least two years to show meaningful
results, a ‘normal’ expatriate assignment should last at least three
years for non-technical jobs. The classic trade-off for determining
optimal tenure is shown in Figure 13.8. The local impact of the
expatriate, in terms of business results, is represented by curve A: it
is a logistic function with a negative contribution during the learning
period (acculturation). It progresses rapidly and then peaks when the
person is in full control of the job.
Figure 13.8 Expatriate tenure

  Curve B in Figure 13.8 represents the benefits of integration for the
expatriate – that is, being in tune with the overall culture of the
company, its core values and competencies that are shared across
the world. Over time, if the expatriate becomes rooted in the local
specificities, the risk is high that they will lose the global spirit and
become localized. The combination of the A and B curves is given by
curve C, showing an optimum benefit for the company at time X that
would theoretically be when the assignment finishes. As indicated
earlier, several factors affect the shape of the curves: if the
acculturation is difficult and the relationships with customers are
important, curve A moves to the right, making the optimum
assignment period much longer.

Support

The overwhelming empirical evidence coming from studies on
expatriation shows that success is very closely correlated with the
support and understanding coming from the parent company from
which the person is detached. Support can take numerous forms, but
it is the psychological contact – the feeling that you are not ‘forgotten’
or ‘marginalized’ – that matters the most. Some companies have put
in place a process of ‘mentoring’ by which a manager at
‘headquarters’ is in charge of regular communication with an
expatriate about personal/career issues. Companies’ internal
communications should devote a large part of their editorial content to
events in world subsidiaries. Visits of key executives should not only
include ‘business’ meetings but also informal dialogues with the
detached personnel. In broad terms, expatriate personnel should
have the feeling that their assignment is important for the company.
Figure 13.9 shows various practices that provide support to
expatriation.




Figure 13.9 Human resources practices supporting expatriation
Source: Authors’ own, derived from text in Evans et al. (2011).


Career follow-up
Traditionally, the career follow-up issue has been known as the
repatriation problem. At the end of the assignment, the expatriate is
concerned about finding a job at the parent company corresponding
to their skills and performances. The repatriation problem assumes
that the person is going to return to the ‘home country’. This is the
case for temporarily assigned personnel but is less probable in the
global management context described in Figure 13.3 as the ‘global
design’, where international managers move from position to position
within the worldwide corporate network. Both ‘returning home’ and
‘going elsewhere’, however, require from the company a proactive
international career management process. In research conducted by
Black and Gregersen (1999), it was found that 25 per cent of
professionals returning from overseas assignments subsequently left
the company because of a lack of job opportunities. The accumulated
experience lost by such attrition is considerable. Companies such as
Monsanto begin to prepare the employee for their return or next
assignment at least six months before the end of the current
placement: it involves the expatriate, human resources management
and the line manager to whom the person reports. The returning
employee indicates their preferences, the line managers and HR
department monitor potential job openings during the coming year as
well as assessing the returner’s skills and knowledge. They propose
several alternatives, generally including additional training in
preparation for the next job.

Alternative forms of expatriation

Despite the fact that long-term assignments are still used extensively
by global firms,7 other forms of international assignments are
increasingly common. These are:8

•    Short-term assignments: more than a business trip and less than
    a year. This is used for specific problem-solving or control issues,
    to cover a person who is hospitalized or for management
    development purposes.
•     Commuter assignment: the person commutes every week to
  another country. This can be quite frequent when time zone
  differences and transport duration are not significantly high.
• Virtual teams: a manager is in charge of a dispersed team. They
  do not commute often but uses internet and video conferencing.
  Although this practice was still relatively limited before the Covid-19
  pandemic, it has been intensely used (and sometimes exclusively
  during lockdown periods) in global corporations.

According to KPMG (2020), ‘there is a trend for long-term or
standard expatriation (e.g. one–five years) to decrease while an
increase of short term (e.g. less than twelve months), commuter (fly-
in, fly-out and cross border) and permanent transfers’ has been
observed.9
   The Covid-19 pandemic that struck in 2020 led to more people
working from home as country lockdowns became a common
occurrence to curb the virus spread. Global mobility decreased as
borders were closed and entire countries were isolated for weeks
and months. Business travel was avoided and video conferencing
became the norm for many home workers.

Virtual assignments vs relocation
With more people working from home and developments in video
conferencing technologies, employees are no longer required to
relocate whilst working on international projects. Although frequent
business trips may create issues similar to those when an assignee is
relocated for the duration of the project, for example, tracking
immigration laws, tax, social security and labour law regulations. For
example, in 2020 Google asked 30 per cent of its 7,000 Ireland-
based staff who had left the country to work remotely to return to
Ireland due to tax and legal issues.10
   Virtual assignments may differ to business travel in terms of cost
allocation or how it is charged within the organization. An assignee’s
costs are often charged to the central project team and can have
taxability implications for the employee and for the employer in
payroll. Compliance can be triggered in the country where the
employee usually lives and works despite not being the work location.
It can lead to confusion for the employer with regards to tax, payroll
tax and timings, while the employee may find calculating their net pay
complex. The employee may need to apply for tax reimbursement
and require support.
   Although virtual assignments may appear easier and cheaper than
relocation, they might well be more complex and incur other costs to
those of relocating.

Destination challenges
Many issues should be considered, by both the employer and
employee, before relocating. In 2020, the USA was considered the
most challenging destination, followed by China and India. Brexit
resulted in the UK, becoming a more difficult destination for
relocation, especially for workers from the EU.
   According to the Santa Fe Repurpose Challenging Change Report
2020/21 on relocation, the most challenging factors for employees
are culture (38 per cent) and language (34 per cent). Support or
preparation for the employees by the organization is key but often
lacking. Now, more than ever, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, tracking
employees is crucial. Immigration complications are also important in
destination desirability (30 per cent). Global mobility professionals
have always dealt with the complex issues of immigration but with the
current changes in border rules, due to Covid-19, it is even more
challenging.
   All the different facets of relocation need to be considered to
optimize cost. Tax costs represent on average 43 per cent of total
expenditure (gross up taxes due on net compensation and employer
social security costs) with the average gross up tax rate at 63 per
cent. Tax planning is therefore key in reducing costs; knowing what is
and is not taxable. Employer social security charges range from 36.8
per cent in Brazil to 0 per cent in UAE. Different agreements between
countries affect costs massively depending on where social security
costs are payable.


  The future of global mobility

  The 1980s and 1990s are considered by global mobility
  professionals as the ‘golden years’ with more predictable
  patterns of mobility. By the 2000s, global commerce became
  more complicated and so did the deployment of international
  talent, be it through business trips, short-term secondments,
  commuter or long-term arrangements.
     The fourth industrial revolution led to organizational
  restructuring and transforming the way people interact. Online
  sales and home delivery increased further in 2020 when the
  Covid-19 pandemic hit the world. Retail giants looked to
  transform their businesses with a portfolio that balanced virtual
  sales with traditional, physical trading activities. Technology also
  affected the global mobility industry with services and solutions
  requiring a tailor-made approach, according to the organization’s
  purpose, preferences and people. For example, in
  language/cultural prepping for employees, ship-ment of
  household goods or pre-move visits. Experts believe that
  although technology appears to be an alternative to relocation,
  there will be a mix of virtual and physical support for international
  assignments – technology cannot replace it totally.11
     Support mechanisms have developed from those in the 1980s
  and 1990s when relocation companies often worked in silos.
  These businesses have sophisticated global, regional and local
  mobility supply chain partners who can deliver bespoke or
  integrated relocation and assignment management solutions.
  This means HR and global mobility teams can streamline
  communications and collaboration with human and digital
  processes and methods.
      The Covid-19 pandemic without doubt has had a significant
   impact on global mobility, yet other risks including cyber-attacks,
   climate change, war, terrorism and the economic climate also
   affect the way people work. Given these factors, global mobility
   practitioners need to invest time in analysis and mitigation.
   Source: Santa Fe Repurpose Challenging Change Report 2020/21 on relocation.



Table 13.2 Eight global trends for global mobility 2021 according to KPMG


 Technology            Fully integrated technology solution that covers the
                       whole spectrum of mobility
 Talent not            Focus on providing a great employee experience –
 transactions          outsourcing high-volume complex transactions such
                       as tax, payroll, compensation, etc.
 Work                  Remote workforces created almost overnight
 anywhere
 Legacy                Traditional international assignee (‘expat’) replaced
 mobility types        by short-term and commuting assignments and
 are shifting          permanent transfers
 quickly
 Flexible              Solutions need to be agile and accommodate
 solutions             different employee levels, needs and types
 Managed               Companies looking to be the most competitive in
 moves are             finding talent are willing to pay for managed moves
 back on the
 upswing
 Immigration           Immigration has become a roadblock to mobility
 hurdles               and many companies are reassessing their
                       compliance risk tolerance as a result
 Data and               Seeking less data and more insight that is critical in
 analytics              ‘telling the mobility story’

Source: https://home.kpmg/xx/en/home/insights/2016/04/global-assignment-policies-and-
practices-survey.html?cid=van_gappsurvey-sx_xx-acx_tax-gappsurvey (accessed 1 February
2022).


International remote work appeals to many




Figure 13.10 Percentage of respondents who would work remotely for an employer with no
physical presence in their country
Note: Countries displayed are the top thirty by either GDP or working population, or the top and
bottom five outliers in percentage of respondents who would work for an international remote
employer.
Source: BCG, Decoding Global Talent, Onsite and Virtual, March 2021,
https://www.bcg.com/publications/2021/virtual-mobility-in-the-global-workforce (accessed 26
January 2022).


Localization
Although expatriate personnel serve as vital links of communication
and knowledge transfer in the network of worldwide business units,
the long-term competitiveness of global firms relies more and more
on the contribution and loyalty of locally recruited personnel (host-
country nationals). Some studies suggest that the proportion of
senior expatriates in global companies in the BRIC countries and in
the Middle East declined by as much as 56 per cent to 12 per cent
from the 1990s to the 2000s.12

•    Local personnel play different important roles such as cultural
  interpreters, communication facilitators, information resource
  brokers, talent developers and change partners.13 Localization of
  managers and staff helps global companies to ‘break the language
  barrier’ (literally and culturally) and develop the intricate network of
  personal and business contacts needed to build and consolidate a
  presence in the various countries. In China, for instance, the
  building of relationships (guanxi) is still recognized as a major
  requirement for conducting a business venture.14 While expatriate
  managers may be able to build good contacts at senior levels,
  local managers can gain access to critical relationships, particularly
  among the medium- and low-level echelons of government and
  company hierarchies.
•   Modern business development also demands a large quantity of
  talent that the pool of international managers alone cannot satisfy.
  A fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) company found that, in
  order to maintain leadership in China, it had to recruit 2,500 local
  salespeople over a period of five years. 15
•   Localization is part of an overall global HR strategy, the aim of
  which is to attract talent everywhere in the world that the company
  operates, making the motto ‘think globally, act locally’ a reality.
•     In some cases, localization is perceived by the authorities of
  emerging nations as a demonstration of the foreign enterprise’s
  commitment to the country. Although in some cases government
  officials prefer to deal with high-ranking senior expatriates because
  of their greater decision-making power, they appreciate that below
  the very top jobs, foreign enterprises will increasingly be managed
  by local nationals. Localization is therefore an important way of
  developing beneficial goodwill.
• Localization reduces expatriate costs.

The main managerial issues in localization are in recruitment,
retention and career management and performance evaluation,
reward practices and cultural differences.
  Talent also plays a part in deciding on location and has become a
competitive factor. The Global Talent Competitiveness Index
described below studies talent in different economies.

The Global Talent Competitiveness Index (GTCI)
The Global Talent Competitiveness Index (GTCI) was first published
in 2013 as an action tool for continuous improvement in connecting
talent to economic development. As talent has become increasingly
important for wealth, the GTCI created an instrument for stimulating
discourse between governments, academia, businesses and their
associations, and citizens.
   The GTCI model continues to evolve, covering national and
organizational parameters. It generates insights that inspire action.
The Index for 2020, published by INSEAD, in partnership with Adecco
Group and Google, included 70 variables covering 132 national
economies, across all groups of income and levels of development. It
was a composite index, that relied on a simple but robust Input–
Output model, composed of six pillars (see Figure 13.11). The
seventh edition addressed the theme of ‘Global Talent in the Age of
Artificial Intelligence’ exploring how the development of artificial
intelligence (AI) is changing the nature of work and forcing a re-
evaluation of workplace practices, corporate structures and
innovation ecosystems. It showed that the gap between talent
champions (almost all of them high-income countries) and the rest of
the world is widening. It also concluded that turning AI into a force for
good requires a proactive, cooperative approach. Introducing AI to
organizations, communities or societies as a whole requires
acceptability as a condition for sustainability. AI could be an
opportunity for emerging countries to leapfrog. Reskilling the
workforce is required as AI emerges in the workplace.




Figure 13.11 The Global Talent Competitiveness Index (GTCI) model
Source: GTCI (2021).

  In 2018, the report ‘Talent and ‘Technology’ examined how
automation would influence the future of work. This was followed in
2019 by the report ‘Entrepreneurial talent and global competitiveness’
which attempted to identify the ways in which large and small firms,
nations and cities could foster entrepreneurial talent in the era of
digital transformation. In 2020, the report ‘Global talent in the age of
Artificial Intelligence’ followed the path initially explored by the GTCI
2017 theme of Talent and Technology. The 2021 report ‘Talent
competitiveness in times of Covid’ describes the ways in which the
pandemic has changed the local and global talent scene.16
Table 13.3 Top twenty countries


 COUNTRY                                                  GTCI RANKING
 Switzerland           1
 Singapore             2
 United States         3
 Denmark               4

 Sweden                5
 Netherlands           6
 Finland               7
 Luxembourg            8
 Norway                9

 Iceland               10
 Australia             11
 United Kingdom        12
 Canada                13
 Germany               14
 New Zealand           15

 Ireland               16
 Belgium               17
 Austria               18
 France                19
 Japan                 20

Source: GTCI (2021).
Recruitment, retention and career management

In some countries foreign firms are perceived favourably by the job
market, but not in all. Japan and South Korea have traditionally been
places where graduates from leading universities and institutions have
shown a marked preference for domestic firms. As a consequence,
the talent pool for foreign firms has been shallow and they have
suffered a competitive disadvantage in recruitment. In fast-growing
emerging countries such as China, the demand for skilled personnel
far outpaced the supply, creating an unhealthy bidding process, and a
high turnover rate. The global companies’ ability to increase local
recruitment depends on three main factors:

•     The image of the company: firms with well-known branded
  products are better placed than unknown ones. The latter have to
  promote themselves by making presentations at universities, giving
  schol-arships, contributing to good causes and engaging in public
  relations, such as the sponsoring of sporting events or academic
  contests at schools and universities.
• The career prospects and training opportunities. Firms that have
  a reputation of offering good development opportunities will be in a
  better position to recruit.
•   A good understanding of local qualifications and the education
  system. Not all countries have the same technical and higher-
  education systems. A simplistic projection of the US
  undergraduate/graduate system onto the local model may overlook
  the best graduates in Germany, France or Japan. In Germany and
  Japan, enterprises compensate for the highly theoretical academic
  orientation of the school system by organizing on-the-job training.
  In France, the best graduate schools are not part of the university
  system at all.

    Financial incentives have to be in line with normal practices – it is
illusory to think that overpaying on salaries will ultimately produce a
higher retention rate. The loyalty of local personnel to a global firm
will be based more on career prospects and a subjective assessment
of ‘fair treatment’ than on pure financial compensation. Fair treatment
is the perception that local employees receive equal treatment to
expatriates of a comparable level, and that their career prospects are
not limited by a glass ceiling. ‘Fair treatment’ thus implies:

•    The ability for local personnel to be able to join the group of
  ‘global managers’ if they have the competence and the desire
• Equal opportunities for development (training and career)
•    Compensation based on the principle of ‘equal job, equal pay’
  (expatriates’ compensation for relocation excluded)
•    Comparable involvement of local personnel and expatriates in
  information-sharing, meetings and decision-making sessions. Local
  personnel should not get the feeling that they are being excluded
  from important matters.

Performance evaluation, reward practices and cultural
differences

The main difficulty in implementing global HRM practices is the need
to align performance evaluation and reward processes with cultural
differences. A global firm would prefer a standardized approach that
fosters the diffusion of a common corporate culture and values as
well as facilitating cross-border transfer of personnel. Recent studies
suggest that more companies are adopting a globally standardized
approach17 but at the same time trying to adapt it to local conditions
through a process of ‘hybridization’.18 Because of cultural differences,
standard processes may not have the desired unifying impact and
their implementation can be ineffective. In Asia, for instance, the most
pronounced cultural divergences are found in four domains:

•      Giving and receiving feedback. Most Western performance
    evaluation processes are based on the assumption that objective,
    open feedback between supervisors and employees is desirable.
    East Asian cultures have difficulty in accepting these assumptions.
  These are ‘high context’ cultures,19 meaning that it is difficult to
  untangle the extent to which performance is due to the individual or
  to their situation. In addition, feedback only goes one way:
  employees do not challenge their boss. Therefore, any ‘unjust’
  judgement is not openly discussed, allowing the supervisor to think
  that the judgement has been ‘accepted’; this may generate
  frustration and resentment, and even covert dissident behaviour
  from the employee.
•   Individual versus group performance. As mentioned in previous
  chapters, most non-Western cultures place a higher importance on
  group belonging and assimilation than on individualism. Too great a
  focus on individual performance may encourage perceptions of
  favouritism, and ultimately induce group resistance or sabotage of
  management policies.
•      System-led versus personalized evaluation processes. In the
    Asia Pacific region, loyalty is often to a person or a group (clan)
    rather than to an organization. Neutral, mechanical systems based
    on numerical ranking and statistical distributions are not well
    understood. People prefer to be appreciated and evaluated by
    their supervisors through a holistic rather than an analytic
    approach. Social impact of rewards or sanctions (importance of
    saving face). Rewards and sanctions not only affect individuals in
    their private life but also affect their standing in their community,
    hence the importance of saving face: receiving blame in front of
    colleagues is considered unacceptable.

The dilemma is obvious: how can a company manage globally and
still take into account the many cultural specificities of the countries in
which it operates? There is no single answer to this, but the examples
of leading global firms such as Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Unilever, ABB
and Shell indicate that the progressive reinforcement of a strong
corporate culture through education and career management
gradually fosters a worldwide acceptance of common practices.
   An example of localization within an overall framework is given in
Example 13.2.
EXAMPLE 13.2 ABB’s localization programme in China in
the late 1990s

Asea Brown Boveri (ABB) had 15 joint ventures and 8 representative
offices in China in early 1997, and employed a total of 80 expatriate
managers. The company reckoned that by 2000 it would have 25 joint
ventures, and its number of expatriate managers would then have
ballooned to 250. If, on average, an expatriate manager cost an
additional $200,000–300,000 per year on top of their normal salary,
250 expatriate managers would increase the compensation bill by
more than $50 million per year.
   The company set up a ‘localization of management committee’ with
the intention of staffing its middle-management positions locally within
three years and its top management positions within five years. To
show the company’s commitment to the goal, its vice-president of
human resources for China sat on the committee as chairman. The
committee, among other things, had the key task of identifying high-
potential candidates among its China operations, and ensuring that
these candidates received the necessary training and demonstrated
good communication with the operating units. More importantly, the
company explicitly required its expatriate managers to set targets of
localization in their operations. Although ABB understood that
expatriate managers were under pressure to meet short-term
business goals, top management thought that the development of
local managers was a long-term strategic concern and should be
given priority. The expatriate managers were thus assessed not just
on their business performance, but also on their ability to develop
local managers. ABB believed that management must continuously
scout for, identify and keep track of internal talent. High-potential staff
at ABB were identified through a performance appraisal system.
Then they were prepared for higher positions or greater responsibility
by providing them with the necessary training and promoting them to
more challenging positions as early as possible. Upper-level
managers were also instructed to support and coach newly promoted
managers. The company reported potential local managers to its
corporate headquarters in Zurich.
   Although most companies embraced the goal of localization of
managers and tried to implement it, ABB went one step further by
systematically collecting and reporting data to monitor local
performance. Its HR department in the Beijing holding company had
to provide management with a monthly report which detailed the
development of HR in the company, such as the training and
promotion of local staff, and also positions available in the company.
It also had to complete a monthly international expatriate assignment
form, explaining to its regional headquarters why certain positions
were filled by expatriates rather than by local Chinese. This reporting
system provided feedback on how well the company was
implementing its goal, and also served as a reminder of the pace and
urgency of the localization programme.
   ABB achieved some tangible success with this programme. At its
China holding company in early 1997, there were three local Chinese
divisional managers (compared with none a year earlier), five local
Chinese departmental managers and twenty local Chinese segmental
managers.
   At its joint ventures, the company in 1997 had nearly 100 local
Chinese divisional managers, departmental managers and section
managers. By 2000, it had only 70 expatriate managers instead of
the projected 250.
Source: Lasserre and Ching (1997). Adapted with permission from Linda Lim at the University
of Michigan.



Complying with regulations

Labour markets are regulated. The aspects of employment that are
subject to the most regulations are:

•   The contractual terms and elements of employment
    –     Fixed versus undefined terms. The use of fixed contracts can
          be limited or prohibited for permanent functions
    –     The maximum working days per week and the number of hours
          per day that are allowed
    –     The conditions and restrictions of night work
    –     The minimum wage
    –     The premium for overtime
    –     The minimum age of employment
    –     Gender and race discrimination in employment
    –     Holidays and paid leave
    –     Retirement schemes
    –     Healthcare contribution
•       The firing process

    – Termination conditions
    – Legal recourse
    – Severance pay
    Employees’ rights institutions
    – Trade union rights
    – Representation of personnel
    – Employment tribunals.

   The International Labour Organization (ILO), the World Bank, the
United Nations, the World Economic Forum and the World Federation
of Trade Unions, amongst other bodies, give some useful information
concerning variations in labour regulations. Figure 13.12 illustrates the
countries located at both extremes of employment regulation (the
most and least tightly regulated). Insert 13.2 is an illustration of the
difficulties in global human resource management.
Figure 13.12 Hiring and firing practices
Note: Scores in reply to survey question: ‘Hiring and firing of workers is … 1 = impeded by
regulations, 7 = flexibly determined by employers.’
Source: Authors’ own figure, based on data from the Global Competitiveness Index Historical
Dataset © 2005–2014 World Economic Forum.



   Insert 13.2 The Polish plumber
   The idea of the cheap ‘Polish plumber’ has long been a much-
   discussed and divisive figure in the EU debate – and he became
   especially important in 2005 when the French public were called
   upon to vote in a referendum on a newly drafted European
   constitutional treaty. Opponents of the treaty argued that if it
   were to be adopted, workers from Eastern Europe could come
   and work in France for less than the minimum wage that French
   law demanded for French nationals and would not pay the social
   security charges that are applied to French workers. The result
   would be a severe loss of employment for French people. A
   similar argument – the threat to British jobs posed by cheap
   labour from other EU states – was one of those most often used
   in the UK in 2016 by ‘Leave’ supporters in the referendum on
   European Union membership (the so-called Brexit decision). In
   both cases the same reaction happened; the French voted ‘No’
   to the treaty and the British said ‘Yes’ to Brexit. The ‘Polish
    plumber’ is now a mythical figure who represents anti-
    globalization sentiment as well as an illustration of the difficulties
    that a global company may encounter in the global management
    of its workforce.


Skills development
Global managers’ required skills are based on a combination of the
organizational roles they have to fulfil and some key individual
characteristics.

Roles

Bartlett and Ghoshal (1992) have identified three main roles for the
global manager:20

•     Business managers operate in global business units and ‘further
    global scale efficiency and competitiveness’. Their task ‘requires
    not only the perspectives to recognize opportunities and risks
    across national and functional boundaries but also the skills to
    coordinate activities and link capabilities across those barriers’.
    This demands a combination of strategic thinking, organizational
    design, resource allocation and coordination.
•     Country managers operate in local subsidiaries. Their role is to
    meet local customer needs, to defend their market position and to
    satisfy local government requirements. This needs a combination of
    entrepreneurship, competitive and market intelligence collection
    and local resource acquisition.
•      Function managers sit at corporate or regional headquarters.
    Their primary role is to be organiz-ers and coordinate worldwide
    learning. They make sure that technologies and best practices are
    transferred across businesses and countries. ‘Using informational
    networks, they create channels of communicating specialized
    information and repositories for specialized knowledge.’

During their career, global managers will normally experience all three
roles in different locations and businesses. In case of conflict, it helps
to create an attitude of mutual understanding and conflict resolution if
you remember that, during your own career path, you are likely to be
in the position of the other party at some time.

Individual skills
The desirable individual skills for managers most frequently cited in
research can be split into eight facets:21

•       Professional: strong mastery of business knowledge in the
    relevant field (marketing, technology, finance, operations)
•     Cultural: ability to respect and deal with cultural difference and
    avoid stereotyping
•     Negotiating: ability to balance conflicting objectives with internal
    and external parties
•      Relational: ability to relate easily with other people and show
    empathy
•       Leadership: ability to set objectives, organize and motivate
    subordinates
•    Intellectual: ability to balance global objectives with local realities
•    Courage and determination
•    Flexibility in moving from one role to another.

Figure 13.13 shows another set of global leadership capabilities that
are identified in much research on the subject.22
   Insert 13.3 shows how Percy Barnevik, the former CEO of ABB,
described the characteristics he expected from global managers in
his company.
Figure 13.13 Global leadership capabilities
Source: Author’s own, based on text in Jokinen (2005).



   Insert 13.3 Ideal characteristics of global
   managers
   •   Tough-skinned
   •   Fast on their feet
   •   Good technical and commercial backgrounds
   •   Ability to lead
   •    Open-minded: show respect for other ways of doing things
   •    Patience
   •    Stamina
  •   Humility
  •   Respect for other cultures
  •   Work experience in two or three countries
  •   Incisive
  •   Ability to sort out the debris of cultural excuses
  •   Generous
  •   People developers
  Source: Taken from Kets de Vries (1994). Copyright © 1994 INSEAD. Reused with
  permission.




Developing skills through job rotation and training
Global skills development, known also as ‘global leaders’
development’, mixes career management with formal training,
facilitating skills acquisition as well as coaching in the various global
roles that managers are likely to play during their careers. Figure
13.14 shows how a global oil company has orchestrated the
development of its international managers.
   In management seminars at various levels, global firms make sure
that a mix of country managers, global managers and function
managers of various nationalities participate, favouring the expansion
of a ‘networking culture’.
Figure 13.14 Global management development in a global oil company

  An increasing trend is remote and flexible working. The following
sections looks at these phenomena, in particular the impact of the
Covid-19 pandemic on working practices and how organizations see
the future workplace.

Working from anywhere (WFA)
Advances in technology and digital connectivity have affected the way
in which people work. Prior to 2020, the workplace had become a
more flexible environment with teleworking increasingly commonplace.
The Covid-19 pandemic that began in 2020 forced employees
worldwide to abandon traditional places of employment and work
remotely. Global teams learnt to collaborate online successfully – a
trend that was coined Work From Anywhere (WFA) and which
affected multinational corporations across the globe.23 WFA has pros
and cons for both the employees and global organizations. Real
estate costs can be reduced or removed entirely. Multinationals can
use talent from around the globe without dealing with challenges of
relocation such as immigration regulations or work permits.
Employees can also reap the benefits of WFA with geographical
flexibility – living and working wherever they desire. Other advantages
include savings made on travel, with commuting no longer required,
and potentially a better work/life balance. The downside, however, for
both employees and employer is potentially less efficient
communication between colleagues, from problem-solving and
socializing, to performance evaluation.
   One of the leading multinationals in audio streaming and media
services, Spotify, is one organization that is convinced that WFA is
the way forward for its workers. Triggered by the pandemic, its
leaders decided that Spotify should transition to a ‘flexible/distribute
first’ company and introduced a WFA programme in February 2021.
The company has a set of beliefs that state work is something you
do, not something you come to the office for:
 How effective you are does not relate to the number of hours spent in an office – therefore
 employees should be given the choice of where they work. Being more flexible will give
 people a better work/life balance and help find new talent and maintain staff. Functioning
 as a distributed organization produces better and more efficient methods of working
 through intentional use of communication and collaboration practices and tools.24

   Launched in the summer of 2021, Spotify offers employees more
flexibility with a programme called ‘My Work Mode’. This allows
employees to work full time remotely, from the office or a
combination of both. Geographical location is also considered,
supporting workers with co-working space membership if they are not
situated near a Spotify office. With this new programme, the
company is building on its package for potential employees, which
includes its flexible public holiday benefit25 that was launched in 2017
and the Employee Incentive Mix of 2019.26 According to Spotify’s HR
blog, a flexible working culture is built on trust, communication,
collaboration and connection, together with acknowledging that staff
are all individuals, with different needs. The company considered
labour law, tax and insurance readiness for its workforce to be
‘working from anywhere’.27
   The acceleration of working flexibly and remotely has become
more and more a part of a company’s means of attracting talent. A
report published in February 2021 found that 98 per cent of the 3,500
global remote workers surveyed preferred to work remotely in some
capacity be it part time or full time.28 Another survey in 2020 found
that allowing remote work reduces employee turnover by an average
of 25 per cent.29 The increased adoption of flexible and remote
working has shown that work does not necessarily need to be
undertaken during office hours or in a ‘physical’ workplace. Other
companies adopting the model include Twitter, Goldman Sachs,
GitLab (the world’s largest all-remote company, with 1,300
employees), Zapier (a workflow automation company with more than
300 employees, none of them colocated, around the United States
and in 23 other countries) and MobSquad (a Canadian start-up that
employs WFA workers).30
   However, as vaccinations were rolled out in most countries, offering
protection for employees from Covid-19, organizations started to
reconsider their approach to office working. Microsoft 2021 Work
Trend Index indicates that 66 per cent of surveyed leaders are
considering redesigning office space for hybrid work, 73 per cent of
employees want flexible remote work options to stay and 67 per cent
of employees want more in-person work or collaboration post
pandemic.31 Reopening offices is still an attractive proposition for
some employers. Even though the remote-work model has gained
significant traction throughout the pandemic, many businesses are still
not sure about embracing the practice permanently. J.P. Morgan’s
CEO in October 2020 questioned how people would learn the culture
and build the character of a company if they were working remotely.
He continued that much work takes place in meetings when people
share ideas.
   Netflix Co-CEO Reed Hastings also remarked in 2020 that ‘Not
being able to get together in person, particularly internationally, is a
pure negative.’32
   Other trends in the transformation of working practices have
emerged which organizations should consider when attracting talent.
There is a decreased desire for working in cities because of Covid-19
and the fear of future pandemics; together with the rise in the cost of
urban living33 plus increased incentives from organizations to attract
remote workers, this could mean that these employees choose to live
in isolation in more remote and even multiple locations – being
‘extremely remote workers’.34 Digital nomads in the past have been
largely freelancers or contract workers in specific sectors such as
web design or marketing. However, this mode of work could be the
future for full-time employees. Offering employees the opportunity to
work remotely (or extremely) is becoming less of an option for
organizations but necessary if they want to attract the best talent.
   While pandemics and high costs push professionals away from
cities, some governments are establishing new initiatives to attract
and pull global talent into cities. Finland is one such example that is
offering foreign talent the opportunity to try out living in Helsinki for
ninety days in a bid to lure more professionals. In 2020, 5,330 people
from around the world applied for the free 90 Day Finn relocation
package offered by Helsinki Business Hub. The international trade
and investment promotion agency will provide the fifteen winners with
airport pick-up, orientation, cultural training, Finnish experiences,
remote-work facilities, introductions to local business networks and all
the documentation needed for a three-month stay together with any
housing, school or childcare requirements. The initiative helped put
Helsinki on the map for global workers and fill a talent gap fuelling its
growing tech sector. If it works, relocation packages like this could
become a valuable new tool in the competitive race to win over
foreign professionals. The unique opportunity that Finland is
proposing could also be a proof of concept that helps the Finnish to
design more effective relocation plans and attract talented employees
who will stay longer.35




  MINI-CASE 13.1
Global managers – Pedro Aguilar

Pedro Aguilar, twenty-nine, and John Anderson, thirty, graduated
in 2017 from Caltech (California Institute of Technology), both
obtaining a Master of Science in Electrical Engineering. Pedro, a
native of Argentina, joined Central Electrica SA, the local
subsidiary of Centerlec, a Texan-based multinational specializing
in construction, operation and maintenance of electrical power
plants. Since his recruitment Pedro had climbed the ladder of
management positions and was appointed chief engineer in the
Transformer Division in Cordoba in October 2020 with a monthly
salary of 240,000 Argentine peso (ARS) ($2,620) plus a possible
bonus of around 20 per cent at the end of the year. He was very
happy with his promotion.
   In December 2021 he met John at the company’s
headquarters. John told him that he had just been appointed
chief engineer in Buenos Aires with basically similar
responsibilities to Pedro’s. They celebrated their encounter in a
local pub and during their conversation, Pedro found out that
John’s salary was a tax-free $90,000 per year ($7,500 per
month) plus a potential bonus plus a contribution to his
accommodation of around 100,000 ARS ($1,092) per month.

Questions:

1  If you were Pedro, what would you think? What would you
  do?
2 What are the arguments that Pedro will hear if he complains
  to the HR director?
3    Can this type of situation be resolved? (You may find it
    helpful to refer back to Chapter 3 to find solutions for this
    situation.)
MINI-CASE 13.2

Global managers – Joseph Laval

In May Joseph Laval was appointed managing director of the
French–Thai joint venture mobile telephony company Siammobile.
The personnel in the joint venture were people who had
transferred from the local partner (a traditional telephony firm)
plus recruits from the local workforce. Joseph reported to the
French parent company Gallicom, at regional headquarters in
Singapore.
   Gallicom implemented a global human resource management
system. One part of the system evaluated the performance of
personnel on a 1 to 5 scale (1 = Low performer, 5 = Outstanding
performer). On that basis, bonuses were attributed and for low
performers some painful lay-off decisions had to be made. A few
months later, Joseph had to review the performances of the
various departments.
   One case that came to Joseph’s attention was Sarawong, a
senior client relationship manager who was one of the personnel
transferred from the local partner to the joint venture three years
previously. Sarawong was very devoted to the company, while
his colleagues appreciated his kindness. In his early fifties, he
was a senior person in the company. Over the years he had
always had good evaluations; in Siammobile his rating was
always 4 (High performer). This was satisfactory for him since
his character was not to be an aggressive money-making
manager. In practice his performances were not really so good.
Joseph was surprised to see that his predecessor granted a 4 to
Sarawong. He decided to give him a 3 (Average performer) even
though he thought that a 2 would be more appropriate.
   Sarawong was devastated when he received his evaluation.
How could he keep face in the office with his colleagues? What
did he do wrong?
   He asked for a meeting with Joseph who rationally explained
to him that the results of his departments were not on a par with
others and that the company evaluation guidelines were very
clear.
   Joseph, as a senior member of staff, talked to Michel
Journaux, the previous managing director of Siammobile with
whom he had a good relationship, and who was now the head of
Gallicom’s Singapore regional office.

Questions:

1    What do you think of the situation?
2    What would you do if you were Journaux?
Source: Adapted with permission from de Bettignies (1996). Copyright INSEAD EAC
1996.


Summary and key points
1 There are four main issues in global HRM:
    a     Personnel management and ratio of global to local
        managers: as seen in the global human resource wheel
    b  Expatriate management: career management of global
      managers
    c Localization: need to recruit and motivate local personnel
    d   Global skills development: need to develop skills
    appropriate for global management
2 There are two types of manager in global firms:
    a  Global managers: career evolves by successive cross-
      border appointments
    b    Local managers: career evolves within a country
      subsidiary
3 Global human resource wheel:

                                   Multi-domestic    Global design
                                   design
Number of global                   Small             Large
managers
Proportion of local                High              Low
personnel
Proportion of temporary            Relatively less   Relatively
detachments                                          more
Can local personnel join  No                         Yes
the global manager group?

4   Expatriate management
    a   There are two types of national:
        •     Third-country nationals (TCN)
        •     Parent-country nationals (PCN)

    b       Expatriate challenges – four main aspects:
        •     Job
               – Inability of manager to adapt
               – Inability of manager’s partner/family to adapt
        •     Local integration
               – Preparation
               – Culture shock
               – Political/social skills
               – Local acculturation
        •     Family
               –    Adaptation
           – Education
    •     Career
       – Selection
       – Rotation
       – Re-entry
c   Expatriate failure:
    •    Measured by recall rate (proportion of assigned
      personnel who fail to complete their predetermined
      contract)
    • Main causes:
        – Inability of manager to adapt
        – Inability of manager’s partner/family to adapt
        – Family-related problems
        – Manager’s personality or emotional immaturity
           – Manager’s inability to cope with responsibility
           – Manager’s lack of technical competence
           – Manager’s lack of motivation
d       Reasons for expatriate success:
    •Recognition of cross-border assignments by corporate
    headquarters
  •   Corporate support/understanding given to expatriate
    personnel
e Four expatriate attitudes (‘four Fs’):
    •     Flight: expatriates preserve own cultural identities,
      isolate themselves and avoid socializing with local
      community
    •      Fight: expatriates criticize host countries, claim
      superiority of their own cultures and avoid socializing
      with locals
    •  Follow: expatriates willing to embrace local culture and
      assimilate, gradually lose connection with global
      headquarters
    •   Fit: cosmopolitans who can immerse themselves into
      the local culture and simultaneously preserve their own
      cultures
f   Expatriate policy:
    •       Strategic – transfer policies can:
        – Fill position
        – Develop manager
        – Develop organization
    • Selection and preparation:
        –      Choice of expatriates: identifying people with
            tolerance for ambiguity; behavioural flexi-bility;
            goal orientation; sociability and interest in other
            people; empathy; ability to be non-judgemental;
            meta-communication skills
        – Preparation of expatriates: clearly communicated
            career plan to avoid re-entry problems; cultural
            and logistical preparation for the employee/family
            (e.g. pre-assignment trips); assessment centres
            to provide tailored training after comparing current
            with required skills
    •       Compensation: additional compensation for the
      difference in living conditions, prices and burden on
      family (e.g. hardship allowance)
    • Tenure:
        –      Duration: company policy or function of time needed
              to learn business rules and build effective business
              relationships, depending on ‘contextual hardship’ of
              the country
            –    Optimal tenure length is determined by the
                combined effect of the expatriates’ local impact on
                business results (which increases over time) and the
                benefits of global integration (which decreases over
                time)
        • Support: mentoring, communication and assurance that
         the staff are not ‘forgotten’
       •      Career follow-up: proactive international career
         management process to ensure staff have a desirable
         job after the overseas posting and to avoid ‘repatriation
         problems’
5   Alternative forms of expatriation
        •    Short-term assignment
        •    Commuter assignment
        •    Virtual team
        •      Global mobility is reduced due to digital revolution
            (remote work) and Covid-19 pandemic
6   Localization
    a   Importance of localization:
        •   Can build/maintain personal and business contacts
        without the potential problems caused by language
        barriers
      •   Local staff better qualified for business development
        which requires local sensitivity/knowledge
      • Reduces expensive expatriate costs
      • Allows a company to reap the benefits of implementing
        a ‘think globally, act locally’ policy Shows commitment
        to the country, which can be of concern to local
        government and/or people
    b The Global Talent Competitiveness Index (GTCI)
      •   Talent plays a part in deciding on location and has
        become a competitive factor
      •   The Global Talent Competitiveness Index compares
        countries across the world on their talent
        competitiveness
    c Concerns:
      •    Recruitment: International firms have more difficulty
        recruiting local talent when there is a scarcity of local
        talent
      • Retention: loyalty of local staff may be hard to secure
        and companies can encourage loyalty through good
        career prospects and ‘fair treatment’ instead of financial
        compensation
      •        Career management: local staff need career
        management and equal opportunity to become ‘global
        managers’ with an absence of a ‘glass ceiling’ for local
        staff
      •    Performance evaluation/cultural difference: dilemma
        of implementing a standardized approach while taking
        cultural differences into account
      •       Reward practices: awareness of importance of
        rewards on private lives and social standing
7   Global skill development
    Three main roles of global managers:
      • Business managers operate in global business units:
           –     Possess ability to coordinate activities and link
               capabilities
           –            Role is to increase global-scale
             efficiency/competitiveness
      •   Country managers who operate in local subsidiaries:
           –     Possess skills of entrepreneurship, capacity to
               build local resources and collect competitive
                  intelligence
              –      Role is to meet local customer needs, defend
                  market position and satisfy local government
                  requirements
          •     Function managers who operate at corporate or
            regional headquarters:
              – Have informational networks
              – Role is to organize/coordinate worldwide learning
                  and transfer technologies and best practices
              – Global skills
          • For individual:
              – Professional
              – Cultural
              – Negotiating
              – Relational
              – Leadership
              – Intellectual
              – Courage and determination
              – Flexibility
         • Skill development:
              – Job rotation
              – Ongoing training
8       Working from anywhere
    –     Following the Covid-19 pandemic, global teams collaborate
         online
    –     Multinationals use talents from all around the world
    –     Offering employees remote working is attracting global
         talents

Learning assignments
1    What are the relative advantages and disadvantages of
    having a high proportion of global managers to local ones?
2    What are the main difficulties that confront expatriate
    managers when they are assigned to an emerging country?
3    What are the main problems of short expatriate
    assignments?
4    One of the main problems that confronts global firms in
    countries such as China is the turnover of local managers.
    How can this be prevented?
5    What are the benefits of mentoring an expatriate?
6    More and more Western countries’ expatriation packages
    are disappearing and being replaced by local contracts. Why?
    What are the advantages and disadvantages?
7  What are the benefits and problems of applying a
  standardized performance evaluation system across the
  world?
8 Why is global mobility reducing in the 2020s?
9  Is digital remote working (working from anywhere)
  consolidating the globalization of enterprise? What is your
  answer If you are pro-globalization, and if you are anti-
  globalization?
10 What will be the key content of a management programme
  designed to train managers to become ‘country managers’?

Key words
•   Acculturation
•   Career plan
•   Expatriates
•   Global leaders development
•   Global managers
•   Global talent competitiveness
•   Local managers
•   Mentoring
•   Missions
•   Relocation
•   Compensation
•   EU workers directive
•   Remote teams
•   Remote working
•   Retention
•   Roles
•   Skills
•   Tenure
•   Virtual assignments
•   Work From Anywhere (WFA)

Web resources
International Personnel Management Association for Human
Resources:
http://www.ipma-hr.org/
Community website created for and by expatriates:
http://www.expatriates.com/
International online network for people who live and work
abroad:
http://www.internations.org/



Companion website
    Visit the companion website at bloomsbury.pub/global-strategic-
    management-5e for a multitude of weblinks and resources, self-
    test questions for revision and appendices.


Notes
1   Lasserre, Porter, Redding and Steward (1997).
2    This definition is from F. Rieger and D. Wong-Rieger, ‘The application of acculturation
   theory to structuring and strategy formulation in international firms’, a research paper
   quoted in Tung (1998: 125–44).
3 Black and Gregersen (1999: 4).
4 Khanna (2014).
5 Rottenberg (1999).
6 Stahl (2001): 206–7).
7 Brookfield Global Relocation Services (2011).
8 Collins et al. (2011): 221–5).
9 KPMG (2020).
10 https://www.irishtimes.com/business/technology/google-tells-workers-to-return-to-country-
   where-they-are-employed-1.4367674 (accessed 1 February 2022).
11      Santa Fe Repurpose Challenging Change Report 2020/21 on relocation,
   https://www.santaferelo.com/en/mobility-insights/global-mobility-survey/global-mobility-
   survey-2020-21-repurpose-challenging-change/ (accessed 29 January 2022).
12 Vance et al. (2009).
13 Holstein (2008).
14 Davies et al. (1995).
15 Hsiec (1999a).
16 Lanvin and Monteiro (2019, 2020, 2021).
17 Stahl et al. (2012); Yamagushi (2014).
18 Yahiaoui (2015).
19 Hofstede (1980).
20 Bartlett and Ghoshal (1992: 124–323), the skills quoted are from this article.
21 Jokinen (2005); Ghemawat (2012).
22 Adler and Bartholomew (1992: 52–65); Mendenhall (2001: 1–17).
23 Choudhury (2020).
24 h t t p s : // h r b l o g . s p o t i f y. c o m / 2 0 2 1/ 0 2 / 12 / introducing-working-from-
   anywhere/.
25 All employees can make a day-off trade: work on a day that is a public holiday in the
   country where they are employed, and then take out another work-day as a holiday instead
   when it fits their values, beliefs, and celebration calendar better.
26 instead of creating policies and heavy administration. The company expects people to own
   their own growth plan - each individual to choose their own incentive mix.
27 h t t p s : // h r b l o g . s p o t i f y. c o m / 2 0 2 1/ 0 2 / 12 / introducing-working-from-
   anywhere/
28 https://lp.buffer.com/state-of-remote-work-2020
29 h t t p s : / / r e s o u r c e s . o w l l a b s . c o m / state-of-remote-work
30 h t t p s : / / h b r . o r g / 2 0 2 0 / 1 1 / our-work-from-anywhere-future
31 https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/worklab/work-trend-index
32    https://www.forbes.com/sites/jackkelly/2020/09/08/netflix-ceo-reed-hastings-is-not-a-fan-
   of-working-from-home-and-wants-his-employees-back-at-the-office-12-hours-after-a-
   vaccine-is-approved/ (accessed 10 may 2022).
33 ht tps:// w w w.carbonbrief.org/solar-is-now-cheapest-electricity-in-history-confirms-iea
34 https://www.computerworld.com/article/3604736/remote-work-20-when-wfh-really-means-
   work-from-anywhere.html
35 https://www.bbc.com/worklife/article/20210121-finlands-radical-plan-to-lure-global-talent


References and further reading

Books and articles
Adler, N. and Bartholomew, S. (1992) ‘Managing globally competent people’, The Academy of
  Management Executive, 6.
Bartlett, C. and Ghoshal, S. (1992) ‘What is a global manager?’, Harvard Business Review, 70
  (5): 124–32.
Black, J. S. and Gregersen, H. (1999) ‘The right way to manage expatriates’, Harvard
  Business Review, 77 (2): 52–63.
Brookfield Global Relocation Services (2011) ‘Global relocation trends’, Report.
Budhwar, P., Schuler, R. and Sparrow, P. (2009) International Human Resource Management
  (London: Sage).
Chalkiti, K. and Sigala, M. (2010) ‘Staff turnover in the Greek tourism industry: a comparison
  between insular and peninsular regions’, International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality
  Management, 22 (3): 335–59.
Choudhury, P. (2020) ‘Our work-from-anywhere future’, Harvard Business Review, 98 (6): 58–
  67.
Choudhury, P. (2020) ‘Managing people. Our work-from-anywhere future. Best practices for all-
  remote organizations’, Harvard Business Review, November–December.
Choudhury, P., Foroughi, C. and Larson, B. (2021) ‘Work-from-anywhere: the productivity
  effects of geographic flexibility’, Strategic Management Journal, 42 (4): 655–83.
Collins, D. G., Scullion, H. and Morley, M. (2011) ‘Changing pattern of global staffing:
  challenges to the conventional expatriate assignment and emerging alternatives’, in G. K.
  Stahl, M. E. Mendenhall and G. R. Oddou (eds), Reading and Cases in International Human
  Resource Management and Organizational Behavior (Abingdon: Routledge).
Davies, H., Leung, T. K. P., Luk, S. T. K. and Wong, Y. H. (1995) ‘The benefit of guanxi: the
  value of relationships in developing the Chinese market’, Industrial Marketing Management,
  24: 207–14.
de Bettignies, H.-C. (1996) ‘Evaluation’, INSEAD Euro Asia Center, Case Study no. 03/1997–
  4677.
Dickmann, M., Suurtari, V. and Wurst, O. (2018) The Management of Global Careers,
  Exploring the Rise of Global Careers (London: Palgrave Macmillan).
Dowling, P. J., Festing, M., Engle, A. D. and Gröschl, S. (2009) International Human Resource
  Management: A Canadian Perspective (Scarborough, ON: Nelson Books).
Doz, Y. L. (1999) ‘Ciba-Geigy management development’, INSEAD Case Study no. 11/1999-
  1153.
Economist Intelligence Unit (2020), Worldwide Cost of Living 2020.
  https://www.eiu.com/n/campaigns/worldwide-cost-of-living-2020/ (accessed 8 February
  2022).
Edstrom, A. and Galbraith, J. (1977) ‘Transfer of managers as a coordination and control
  strategy in multinational organizations’, Administrative Science Quarterly, June.
Elgan, M. (2021) ‘Remote work 2.0 — when WFH really means “work from anywhere”’.
  https://www.computerworld.com/article/3604736/remote-work-20-when-wfh-really-means-
  work-from-anywhere.html (accessed 1 February 2022).
Evans, P., Pucik, V. and Barsoux, J.-L. (2011) The Global Challenge: Frameworks for
  International Human Resources Management (New York, NY: McGraw-Hill).
Ghemawat, P. (2012) ‘Developing global leaders’, McKinsey Quarterly, 3: 100–9.
GTCI (2021), The Global Talent Competitiveness Index 2021.
  https://www.insead.edu/sites/default/files/assets/dept/fr/gtci/GTCI-2021-Report.pdf
  (accessed 25 January 2022).
Hadley, C. N. and Mortensen, M. (2021) ‘Are your team members lonely?’, MIT Sloan
  Management Review, 62 (2): 36–40.
Harzing, A.-W. and Van Ruysseveldt, J. (2004) International Human Resource Management
  (London: Sage).
Hofstede, G. (1980) Culture’s Consequences: International Differences in Work-Related
  Values (Beverly Hills, CA: Sage).
Holstein, W. (2008) ‘The decline of the expat executive’, Strategy + Business, July.
Hsieh, T., Lavoie, J. and Samek, R. A. P. (1999a) ‘Think global, hire local’, McKinsey Quarterly,
  4: 93–101.
Hsieh, T., Lavoie, J. and Samek, R. A. P. (1999b) ‘Are you taking your expatriate talent
  seriously?’, McKinsey Quarterly, 3: 71–83.
Jokinen, T. (2005) ‘Global leadership competencies: are view and discussion’, Journal of
  European Industrial Training, 29 (3): 199–216.
Kets de Vries, M. (1994) ‘Percy Barnevik and ABB’, INSEAD Case Study 05/1994-4308.
Khanna, T. (2014) ‘Contextual intelligence’, Harvard Business Review, 92 (9): 58–68.
KPMG International (2020) Global Assignment Policies and Practices survey.
  https://home.kpmg/xx/en/home/insights/2021/10/global-assignment-policies-and-practices-
  survey-report.html (accessed 1 February 2022).
Lanvin, B. and Monteiro, L. F. (eds) (2019) ‘The global talent competitiveness index 2019:
  entrepreneurial talent and global competitiveness’ (Fontainebleau: INSEAD).
  https://www.insead.edu/faculty-research/research/gtci (accessed 13 April 2022).
Lanvin, B. and Monteiro, L. F. (eds) (2020) ‘The global talent competitiveness index 2020:
  global talent in the age of artificial intelligence’, (Fontainebleau: INSEAD).
  https://www.insead.edu/faculty-research/research/gtci (accessed 13 April 2022).
Lanvin, B. and Monteiro, L. F. (eds) (2021) The Global Talent Competitiveness Index 2021:
  Talent Competitiveness in Times of COVID (Fontainebleau: INSEAD).
  https://www.insead.edu/faculty-research/research/gtci (accessed 13 April 2022).
Lasserre, P. and Ching, P. S. (1997) ‘Human resource management in China and the
  localization challenge’, Journal of Asian Business, 13 (4): 85–99.
Lasserre, P., Porter, L., Redding, G. and Steward, P. (1997) Managing International
  Assignments in Asia: Individual and Organizational Challenge, The International Consortium
  for Executive Education [internal report].
McNulty, Y. and Brewster, C. (2020) ‘The expatriate cycle’, Global Business & Organizational
  Excellence, May/June, 39 (4): 60–75.
Mendenhall, M. E. (2001) ‘New perspectives on expatriate adjustment and its relationship to
  global leadership development’, in M. Mendenhall, T. Mailman and G. Stahl (eds), Developing
  Global Leaders (Westport, CT: Quorum Books).
Parsons, A. J. (1996) ‘Nestlé: the visions of local managers’, McKinsey Quarterly, 2: 5–29.
Quelch, J. A. and Bloom, H. (1996) ‘The return of the country manager’, McKinsey Quarterly,
  2: 31–43.
Reiche, B. S. and Minbaeva, D. (2019) ‘HRM in multinational companies’, in A. Wilkinson,
  N. Bacon, S. Snell and D. Lepak (eds), The SAGE Handbook of Human Resource
  Management, 2 edn, 541–56 (Los Angeles, CA: SAGE Publications).
Reiche, B. S., Lee, Y. and Allen, D. G. (2019) ‘Actors, structure, and processes: a review and
  concep-tualization of global work integrating IB and HRM research’, Journal of Management.
  https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206318808885 (accessed 1 February 2022).
Rieger, F. and Wong-Rieger, D. (1998) ‘The application of acculturation theory to structuring
  and strategy formulation in international firms’, in R. Tung, ‘American expatriates: from
  neophytes to cosmopolitans’, Journal of World Business, 33 (2): 125–44.
Rosenweig, P. M. (1994) ‘Colgate-Palmolive: managing international careers’, Harvard
  Business School Case Study 9-394-184.
Rottenberg, S. (1999) ‘Prepare for the overseas trip’, Harvard Management Update (Boston,
  MA: Harvard Business School Publishing, U9904C).
Stahl, G. (2001) ‘Using assessment centers as tools for global leadership development: an
  exploratory study’, in M. Mendenhall, T. Kuhlman and G. Stahl (eds), Developing Global
  Leaders, 198–201 (Westport, CT: Quorum Books).
Stahl, G. K., Bjorkman, I., Farndale, E., Morris, S. S., Paauwe, J., Stiles, P., Trevor, J. and
  Wright, P. (2012) ‘Six principles of effective global talent management’, MIT Sloan
  Management Review, 53 (2): 30.
Tayeb, Z. (2021) ‘The great divide: business leaders are split on long-term remote working.
  This is what Spotify, Twitter, Goldman Sachs, and others have announced’.
  https://www.businessinsider.com/what-spotify-twitter-goldman-sachs-said-about-long-term-
  remote-working-2021-3?r=US&IR=T (accessed 1 February 2022).
Tsedal, N. (2021) Remote Work Revolution: Succeeding from Anywhere (Boston, MA: Harvard
  Business School Press).
Tung, R. (1987) ‘Expatriate assignments: enhancing success and minimizing failure’, The
  Academy of Management Executive, 1: 117–25.
Tung, R. (1998) ‘American expatriates: from neophytes to cosmopolitans’, Journal of World
  Business, 33 (2): 125–44.
Vance, C. M., Vaiman, V. and Andersen, T. (2009) ‘The vital liaison role of host country
  nationals in MNC knowledge management’, Human Resource Management, 48 (4): 649–59.
Yahiaoui, D. (2015) ‘Hybridization: striking a balance between adoption and adaptation of
  human resource management practices in French multinational corporations and their
  Tunisian subsidiaries’, International Journal of Human Resource Management, 26 (13):
  1665–93.
Yamagushi, T. (2014) ‘Standardizing HR practices around the world’, Harvard Business
  Review, September: 80–1.


Journal
International Journal of Human Resource Management:
   https://www.tandfonline.com/journals/rijh20
Chapter 14

Designing a global organization




  At the end of the chapter you will be able to:

  •  Identify the benefits and issues for each organizational type
  •   Participate in a meaningful way in designing an appropriate
    organization in the context of a particular global firm
  • Understand the characteristics of the transnational model and
    be able to introduce its features in a particular firm



Introduction
In Chapter 5 various models of organizational design were introduced.
It has been argued that those designs were contingent upon the
nature of the global industry context as well as the strategic
positioning and business system selected by corporations. In practice,
whatever the type of design chosen, companies engaged in global
business have to cope with a dual requirement:
•     They need to efficiently introduce and leverage their competitive
    advantages across borders; consequently their organizational
    design demands a certain degree of coordination and
    centralization.
•       They need to adapt to local conditions; consequently their
    organizational design demands a certain degree of decentralization
    and local autonomy.

This chapter discusses the various organizational designs used by
corporations in their international, multinational and global operations.
Based on prior research, several organizational models can be
identified:

•   Global: a worldwide functional or global product structure
•   Confederation geographical: a multi-countries structure
•   Multidimensional: a matrix or transnational structure
•    Entrepreneurial alternative models: customer-centred structures,
    complex dual structural models, the transnational model, the e-
    enabled model, holocracy.

These are described and illustrated in turn, showing their advantages
and disadvantages. It can be argued that there is no single best
structure and that the adoption of a particular structure is contingent
upon the competitive imperative. A variety of structures can be derived
from these models by mixing their features, but the chapter ends by
advocating that global firms should develop a culture and management
process of the ‘transnational’ model and by discussing the roles of
regional headquarters (RHQs).

The merry-go-round organizational challenge
In a Harvard Business Review article published in 1983, Professor
Christopher Bartlett observed that international companies were
constantly reorganizing their operations and that their search to find
the ideal international structure had shown poor results; this he called
the reorganization merry-go-round. A similar observation was made
more recently by a group of analysts from McKinsey who mentioned
that the difficulty of finding an organizational model lies in the need to
‘capture scale across borders while differentiating products and
services to suit the needs of local customers all without letting
complexity get in the way of speed and agility’.1
   This phenomenon is illustrated in Example 14.1, detailing two
companies in the same industry: Unilever and Procter & Gamble.
These two firms have modified their global organizational structure
over the years towards an increasing global business focus laying less
emphasis on geographical decentralization.


EXAMPLE 14.1 Evolution of two global organizations

Unilever

Originally a British soap company created in the 1890s as Lever, the
company became Unilever in 1929 after association with a Dutch
margarine producer. Over the years the company developed a global
presence through acquisitions and internal development. Originally the
organization was based on strategically independent units on a
country-by-country basis. During the 1980s four product divisions were
established to coordinate regional operations: Foods, Personal Care,
Home Care and Speciality Chemicals. The country autonomy of
subsidiaries was still maintained. The 1990s saw a surge in
international acquisitions that created organizational obstacles,
confusion and excessive bureaucracy, leading to a much-needed
corporate restructuring. Fourteen business presidents were appointed
and operations were regrouped by business and products rather than
geography. A matrix-type structure combining local initiative with some
centralization was introduced. However, by the early 2000s, Unilever’s
market share had declined and its market shrank by 60 per cent from
£51 billion (US$76 billion) to £20 billion (US$30 billion). Unilever was
then split into two separate global business units: Foods and Home
and Personal Care. It reorganized its 300 operating companies into 10
Regional Groups and gave more autonomy to subsidiaries. The
company realized that it had too many brands and decided to reduce
them from 1,600 to 400, 13 of which were global brands, that each
generated more than £1 billion (US$1.8 billion). In 2005, the company
launched a process of reorganization known as One World aimed at
aligning the entire company to a single strategy. Non-core products
were divested. In 2011, the two global divisions were extended to
four: Food, Personal Care, Refreshment and Household Care – these
were later reduced to three: Beauty and Personal, Food and
Refreshment, and Home Care. This goal was to foster growth in
emerging markets. In 2020, Unilever operated 300 factories around
the world, linked to a centralized controlled logistic network and seven
main R&D centres, based in the UK (2), Netherlands, North America,
China, Italy and India. Its turnover amounted to £52 billion (US$71
billion -58 per cent in emerging markets) and employed 149,000
people across the world. Its 400 brands are sold in 190 countries
through a network of 25 million retailers.

Procter & Gamble

Founded in 1837 in Cincinnati (USA), as a candle and soap maker,
Procter & Gamble created its first factory in Canada in 1915, but most
of its international expansion started after the Second World War. It
created an international product division in 1948 to manage its foreign
business. By the mid-1950s, the operations were organized by
product divisions in charge of managing brands on a worldwide basis,
serving country subsidiaries. A reorganization in 1987 created 39
category business units in the USA, each managing product
development, manufacturing, sales and finance. The international
operations were run on a regional/country basis with autonomous
country general managers (GMs) who adapted products to local
conditions and were responsible for profits. Attempts were made to
promote cross-border cooperation within product categories. Product
category vice-presidents were given profit and loss responsibility.
   In the late 1980s, P&G moved to a global matrix structure based on
Products and Functions. Implemented first in Europe, this structure
was extended to the world with the creation of four regions: North
America, Europe, Middle East/Africa and Asia. Manufacturing,
purchasing, engineering and distribution were integrated worldwide,
but by the mid-1990s it became clear that this type of matrix
organization created some conflicts and unnecessary expense. In
2005, P&G announced a restructuring plan reducing management
layers and creating four interdependent global organizations: Global
Business Units, Selling and Markets Operations, Functions, and Global
Business Services for internal processes such as IT, HR and
budgeting.
   The ten Global Business Units (GBUs) were: Baby Care, Feminine
Care, Family Care, Grooming, Oral Care, Personal Health Care, Hair
Care, Skin and Personal Care, Fabric Care and Home Care. Within
each category, Research & Development, Product Supply and Brand
Organization develop, manufacture and market the brands and
products provided to consumers.
   The Selling and Markets Operations (SMOs) are responsible for
developing and executing local sales and distribution. They are divided
into six regions that reach consumers in more than 180 countries: Asia
Pacific, Europe, Greater China, IMEA (India, the Middle East and
Africa), Latin America and North America.
   Functions provide expertise in the areas of Finance, Human
Resources, Sales, Communications, Legal and IT.
   Global Business Services (GBS) provides shared services such as
payroll, purchases, real-time data analytics, benefits and facilities
management.
   In 2019, the ten product categories were contracted into six Sector
Business Units (SBUs). The SBUs are responsible for global brand
strategy, innovation and supply chain. They have direct profit
responsibility for markets representing the majority of the company’s
sales and earnings (referred to as Focus Markets) and are
responsible for innovation plans, supply plans and operating
frameworks to drive growth and value creation in the six geographical
markets mentioned earlier (referred to as Enterprise Markets). As of
June 2020, P&G employed 99,000 people and generated sales of $70
billion, 35 per cent of which came from emerging countries.
Sources: P&G and Unilever websites annual reports 2020; Piskorsi and Spadini (2007).



   Moreover, in an earlier survey another McKinsey team had
observed that global firms that had adopted a global structure, instead
of a local one, scored lower on several dimensions of organizational
health than firms that had adopted a locally focused form of
organization. They concluded that this globalization penalty2 meant
that locally based organizations were able to ‘align around a strategy
or change programme, to execute, and to renew the company faster’
than globally structured firms.
   In order to cope with the inherently conflicting demands of global
integration and local responsiveness, multidimensional forms of
organizational design have been proposed, ranging from the matrix to
the networked models.
   In this chapter you will encounter various models of global
organizational design with discussions of when they are most
appropriate. Each organizational design reflects the way companies
meet this dual demand of integration/localization through the
implementation of three interlocking elements:

•    Organizational structure: how roles, responsibilities and power are
    assigned.
•      Organizational processes: how decisions are made, resources
    allocated, policies enacted and rewards, sanctions and control
    exercised. Organizational processes include information, decision
    making, planning/control and performance evaluation processes.
•    Organizational culture: the shared values and the dominant logic3
    of doing business; the ‘dos and don’ts’ and what behaviour is
    rewarded or sanctioned.

The various designs presented are usually seen at different stages of
globalization. These are:
•   The international division model
•   The global functional model
•   The geographical models: single business or multi-business
•   The product division model
•   The matrix model: single business or multi-business
•   The transnational model.

In their seminal work, John Stopford and Louis Wells described this
evolution,4 as represented in Figure 14.1.




Figure 14.1 The evolution of global organizational models
Source: Authors’ own figure, derived from text in Stopford and Wells (1972).


The international division model
The international division model can be described as the first
organizational structure adopted by firms at an early stage of
internationalization.5 In this model, there is a clear distinction between
the home-country business units managed by divisional executives in
charge of product development, manufacturing, home marketing and
exports, and the international subsidiaries which, under the leadership
of an international division executive, oversee their countries’ strategic
development. The overseas subsidiaries possess a high degree of
autonomy, but are dependent upon the home-country divisions for
products and technical support. While international sales represent a
small proportion of total sales and transactions between home
divisions, and country subsidiaries are limited, this model fulfills the
requirements of global efficiency and local responsiveness. When
international sales increase to represent a significant proportion of
total turnover, the company begins to feel the need to integrate all
activities in a global structure, either geographical, divisional or matrix.

The global functional model
The global functional design is based upon the worldwide
centralization of decision making, coordination and control at the level
of the key functional activities such as R&D, operations and marketing.
All strategic decisions and operational policies are made at origin-
country headquarters level. Country subsidiaries are local legal
entities; the heads of country subsidiaries have responsibilities with
regard to the laws of the countries in which they operate, but all key
business decisions relating to products, production, operations and
marketing come from headquarters. Managers within the subsidiaries
take their instructions from the corporate vice-president or director in
charge of their function. The only autonomous decisions are those
related to the practical implementation of policies, such as sales
management, or those with a strong local legal content, such as tax
reporting or personnel management.
   This organizational model best fits companies or business units
within multi-business corporations operating in single business
environments with strong demand for global integration and
coordination.
   The global functional organizational design is represented in Figure
14.2 and its characteristics are described in Table 14.1. An example
of global functional design is provided below.




Figure 14.2 The global functional organizational design

Table 14.1 Characteristics of global functional organizational design
EXAMPLE 14.2 Global functional organizational design at
Apple

After the death of Apple’s co-founder Steve Jobs, Tim Cook assumed
the role of CEO of the company – but the essence of the organization
did not change. The global organization is based on a pyramidal
functional design. On the top level of the pyramid are the main function
and product areas (Software, Industrial Design, Operations, Software
Engineering, Product Marketing, Global Communication, Internet
Services, Mac Hardware Engineering, Legal and Finance), each
headed by a senior executive who oversees all global operations in
that field.
   Some other functions are headed by product-based vice-presidents,
such as iPad and iPhone. At the bottom of the pyramid are the
international subsidiaries that have local responsibility for marketing
and selling products, and sourcing components and devices.


Advantages of the global functional organizational model

The key advantages of this model are the efficiencies obtained
through the consistency of decisions and policies. This leads to the
optimal use, concentration and specialization of resources, which in
turn produces economies of scale, avoids duplication of effort and
enables rapid knowledge transfer from headquarters to the
subsidiaries. These benefits are most felt when products are
standardized and economies of scale and rapid transfer of central
know-how are key determinants of competitive advantage – examples
are commodities businesses such as oil or basic chemicals, and
industries in which manufacturing or operational systems demand size
optimization and complex supply chain logistics.

Disadvantages of the global functional organizational model

The drawbacks of this model are more visible when either the
competitive context is fragmented into several segments, calling for
distinct capabilities, or when the local markets and business
environments vary significantly. In such cases a standardized,
undifferentiated approach leads to inflexibility, local dysfunction and
market rejection. Internally, it fosters excess bureaucracy and
discourages initiative.

The geographical models
Geographical organizational design, unlike the global functional design,
is based on the worldwide devolution of decision making, coordination
and control to the subsidiaries. In such a model, central functions or
product management roles can sometimes play an advisory,
stimulating or coordinating role without much executive power. The
relationships between the subsidiaries and the central functional
directors or product managers are sometimes referred to as ‘dotted-
line’ relationships, to signify that there are no firm, formal hierarchical
links. Function managers within business units report to the national
manager, who in turn reports either directly to the chief executive or to
a senior manager in charge of international operations. In many cases,
intermediary executive powers are given to regional executives located
at regional headquarters in key world regions. National managers
develop strategies and choose or adapt products to best fit with their
local environment. Policies are decided and enacted locally. In many
cases, national or regional managers sit on the corporate executive
committee. The global strengths of this organizational model come
from the flexibility that local managers have to adapt to their local
characteristics. Its success relies, however, on the local degree of
basic technological capabilities and knowledge (about product ranges
in particular) that the corporation can call upon or install into the
regional and country subsidiaries.
   The geographical design may apply to single business companies or
in multi-business companies. In both cases countries are generally
grouped regionally.
   Those two geographical organizational designs are represented in
Figure 14.3 and their characteristics are described in Table 14.2.
Figure 14.3 Geographical organizational models

Table 14.2 Characteristics of geographical organizational models
   In the single business geographical model, country managers are
responsible for their profits and coordinate with central functions such
as R&D, manufacturing and marketing in order to adapt to their local
business realities.
   In the multi-business geographical design, country subsidiaries are
given full strategic and operational responsibilities for all product lines
in their territory. In this design, the central global functions and product
divisions have a ‘support’ or dotted-line role. National or regional units
are profit centres and act autonomously.
EXAMPLE 14.3 Geographical organizations – Zee
Entertainment and ISS

Zee Entertainment Enterprise

Founded in 1994 as a satellite TV and direct home transmission in
India, Zee Entertainment Enterprise, part of the Essel conglomerate,
is the largest producer and aggregator of Hindi programming in the
world with around 1 billion viewers across the Middle East, Asia
Pacific, North America, Africa and Europe.
   Its internationalization process started by targeting the South Asian
diaspora who wanted to remain connected to their original language
programming. It launched its first subsidiary in the UK in 1995 followed
by the USA, Africa and Southeast Asia. It offered its international
audience Indian-produced movies and series chosen to suit local
tastes. It then expanded its product portfolio to sport channels. It
moved later on to produce local content for its various audiences. It
offers a range of 46 domestic and 35 international channels. Its
organizational structure is based on country management autonomy.
Grouped into five regions (USA, Europe, Africa, Southeast Asia and
Middle East/North Africa), country managers are in charge of their
own research, programming and marketing, reporting back to regional
managers.
   Zee Entertainment’s turnover in 2020 was $1,118 million and it
employed 2,200 people. Its international operations represents 13 per
cent of revenues.

International Service System A/S (ISS)

Founded in Copenhagen, Denmark, in 1901, ISS (International Service
System) is a global facility services management company, offering
facility management plus cleaning, support, property, catering and
security services. In 2020 ISS had a turnover of $11 billion and
450,000 employees in 77 countries across Europe, Asia, North
America, Latin America and Pacific. Its customers are from both
public- and private-sector organizations ranging from industrial sites to
administrative offices, offshore platforms, hospitals and retirement
homes.
   Poul Andreassen, who was the key architect of this organizational
design, thought that the ‘most profitable way to provide services is
through small standalone companies led by a local manager who is
encouraged to think of the business as his or her own’. He intentionally
erected a barrier around the operational units which he called ‘the Wall
of China’ to keep out top management. This original decentralized
model was still in place in 2020. As stated on its website in its 2020
Annual report ‘ISS is a country-centric organisation and rightly so. The
vast majority of our business is originated locally. All business is
executed locally, and all of our people are hired locally’.6 Each country
operates on local initiative and control, developing the local business
according to market demand instead of following a ‘one size fits all’
approach. ISS has implemented a lean corporate structure,
deliberately keeping overheads low and focusing solely on essentials.
The role of the corporate centre is to provide financial and marketing
expertise to the various countries.


Advantages of geographical organizational models

The main advantages of these designs are their flexibility and
adaptability to local conditions. They encourage the optimization of the
product and investment portfolio at country level, fitting with local
tastes and regulatory conditions. Products tailored to consumer
demands, advertising campaigns reflecting local culture and
investment practices fitting with national policies enable companies to
make more appealing value propositions. The ability to adapt and
change competitive parameters without lengthy negotiations with the
corporate centre gives geographically structured companies a better
chance to capture emerging opportunities, or react rapidly to changing
local conditions. Those advantages are more significant when
customers’ tastes and needs differ significantly across countries for
economic, cultural, social or political reasons, and when scale
economies can be attached easily within national boundaries.
Traditionally, foods, cosmetics, personal services and government-
regulated industries are those in which geographical design has
worked well.

Disadvantages of geographical organizational models

Disadvantages arise when local autonomy creates too much
duplication, erodes economies of scale or slows down the transfer of
innovation. When customers become global and the market requires a
‘global’ pricing or service, geographically structured companies may
lose their competitiveness if they do not introduce some element of
global coordination. Sub-optimal resource allocation and delays in new
product introduction are the main pitfalls of this model. In industries in
which the pressures for globalization are high, this model leads to
inefficiency and loss of competitive advantage. As seen earlier when
discussing the ‘reorganization merry-go-round’ and ‘the globalization
penalty’, since the 1990s those models have been abandoned, then
reintroduced and given more predominance in the context of a matrix
or transnational structure.

The multi-business global product division models
When a company has diversified into several business activities to
become a multi-business corporation, it has the choice of three
different organizational models to manage its global operations. Either
it organizes itself along the product dimension or along the
geographical dimension or with a matrix. The first organizational
model is known as the multi-business global product division
organization, which is represented in Figure 14.4 and its
characteristics are described in Table 14.3. The example of
Bombardier illustrates a multi-business global product division
organization.
Figure 14.4 The multi-business global product division organizational model

Table 14.3 Characteristics of the multi-business global product division organizational model
   In this model, the company is divided into business divisions, each
in charge of a product or service line. Each division chief executive is
responsible for the global performance of the division’s business and,
as such, formulates its global strategy and puts in place the
organizational design which best fits its competitive context. In some
cases divisions act independently from each other and subsidiaries of
one division in one country frequently do not interact at all with
subsidiaries of another division. Within the division, the organizational
design can be one of the three kinds described earlier: global
functional, geographical or matrix.
   If the competitive contexts of the division differ, one division can be
organized geographically, for instance, and another use the global
functional model. National subsidiary managers report to division
heads. In this model, the divisional global headquarters of one
business can be located in one country while the headquarters of
another division are based in another country and the corporate
headquarters in another one. The corporate headquarters’ role is
limited to overall strategic planning, financial control and executive
career management.


EXAMPLE 14.4 Philips

The Dutch Philips group transformed itself from a diversified
conglomerate involved in consumer electronics, domestic appliances
and personal care into a multi-business global corporation involved in
health-related products. In 2020, with a total revenues of €19.5 billion,
the global segments were Diagnosis Imaging (41 per cent), Ultrasound
(20 per cent), Image Guided therapy (37 per cent) and Enterprise &
Diagnostic Informatics (8 per cent). It operates three market groups –
North America, Greater China and International Markets (consisting of
seven regions) – which are active in more than 100 countries
worldwide. It employs 81,500 people.
  Each global business segment’s executive director is responsible for
the management of its business worldwide. The country’s head’s
objectives are to understand local market/customer needs and to
develop and manage the relationship with existing and new customers.
They have a country P&L responsibility.

Advantages of the multi-business global product division
model

This model gives the global company the flexibility to adapt its
structure to the competitive context of each business. By giving
division executives the strategic responsibility for their business, this
design provides the organizational mechanisms for global efficiency
and coordination. This model tends to be favoured by the vast majority
of multi-business corporations.

Disadvantages of the multi-business global product division
model

The disadvantages of this model appear most clearly in regions or
countries where big contracts require an integrated approach. In China
or other emerging countries, customers do not understand why
different propositions for different parts of a project come from
different divisions of the same multinational and call for a single offer.
The second obvious disadvantage of this model comes from the
predominance given to global efficiency as opposed to local
responsiveness.


The matrix models
The matrix model is an organizational design in which two (or
sometimes three) managerial responsibilities are given equal power-
decision and profit-and-loss responsibilities. In the global business
environment, matrices can take several forms:

•      Function/geography matrix: both functions and geography are
    given equal power and responsibilities. In such a case the R&D
    global vice-president would be responsible for the global R&D
  budget and would have some authority over the careers of
  scientists and designers, but national managers would have some
  authority over the allocation of resources, local laboratories and the
  careers of scientists or designers. A similar dual responsibility
  would apply for operations and marketing. This design is very often
  used by professional firms such as engineering companies,
  advertising or consultancy firms.
•    Products/geography matrix in multi-business corporations. This
  design emphasizes dual responsibilities shared between the product
  divisions and the regions and countries.
•   Customer groups/geography matrix in which responsibilities are
  shared between the customer-facing groups and the geographical
  units.
• Tri-dimensional matrix in which the power is distributed into three
  managerial areas: products (or customer groups), geography and
  functions.

The product/geography, customer/geography or tri-dimensional
matrices are used in multi-business corporations.
    The end result of these designs is shared executive power which
puts middle managers in a situation of having ‘dual’ or sometimes
‘triple bosses’.
    The objective of such designs is to solve the requirements of
efficiency, leverage and responsiveness through a dual structure. It
aims to develop a culture of ‘thinking globally, acting locally’ by
institutionalizing the tensions arising from the two competitive
imperatives.
    The single matrix organizational design is represented in Figure 14.5
and its characteristics are described in Table 14.4. Some examples of
these structures follow.
Figure 14.5 Matrix organizational simplified models

Table 14.4 Characteristics of matrix organizational models
EXAMPLE 14.5 Matrix organizations – Olam and BASF

Olam International: a three-dimensional matrix

Olam International was established in Nigeria in 1989 for exporting
cashew nuts from Nigeria into India. In 2016 Olam was a global
integrated agri-business company cultivating or sourcing 47 products
(staple foods, cocoa, coffee, spices, nuts, dairy produce, cotton, and
industrial raw materials), from plantation and processing through to
distribution. Production, sourcing and distribution centres are located
in 70 countries worldwide to serve 21,000 customers.
   Olam employs 80,000 full-time, seasonal and contractual personnel
worldwide. In 2021, its sales totaled $Sing 47000Lillion ( US$ 34000
million) with 47 per cent in Asia, the Middle East and Australia, 16.5
per cent in Europe, 19.5 per cent in Africa and 16.8 per cent in the
Americas.
   Its organization that was reorganized in 2020 is a three-dimensional
matrix made of 3 Operating Groups, Country management and
Functional teams as in Figure 14.6.
   The three Operating Groups’ directors are directly responsible for
the profit and loss of a business or a section of business in more than
one country. They are part of the team of global business heads
overseeing global strategy, resource allocation and logistics
coordination, as well as managing synergies and efficiencies for their
respective businesses and the organization as a whole.
   The country managers’ role is to be in tune with and responsive to
the local market and to manage sourcing, processing, logistics and
distribution activities in their respective countries while controlling
supply chain risks. Country management is grouped into four regions:
1) Asia, Middle East, Australia, 2) Africa, 3) Europe, 4) Americas.
Figure 14.6 The Olam three-dimensional organization matrix

  Functional teams include Finance and Accounting; Information
Technology; Risk; Audit; Human Resources; Manufacturing and
Technical Services; Plantations and Farming; Strategic Investments;
Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability; Investor Relations;
Treasury and Shipping. Although headed at a global level, functional
team members are located in different tiers across various countries.
Source: Pant, Constantini and Pant (2011), and company documents. Reproduced with
permission.


BASF

The BASF Group is one of the world’s largest chemical corporations,
with 358 sites scattered throughout 90 countries and customers in
more than 170 countries. In 2021, the company’s sales reached €79
billion (US$83billion) with pre-tax profits of €7.8 billion (US$8.2 billion).
The group’s activities are divided into five segments containing 13
global divisions. The segments are: Chemicals, Performance
Products, Functional Solutions, Agricultural Solutions, and Oil and
Gas. These products are organizationally balanced by four regional
divisions: Europe, North America, Asia Pacific and South
America/Africa/Middle East, with five research divisions and eight
functional divisions including engineering and maintenance, global
logistics, finance and human resources as well as seven corporate
units providing management with strategic, financial and legal support.
This provides BASF with a three-dimensional matrix. In the 1980s,
most important business decisions were taken in the Ludwigshafen
(Germany) headquarters; organizations with regional responsibilities
remained sited in Germany, for the most part staffed by Germans. As
part of a globalization drive since 2000, the BASF Group made a
major effort to decentralize its international business, moving many of
the company’s operations and decision-making capabilities and key
region-sensitive activities, such as marketing, as well as certain
administrative functions, into three principal geographical areas:
Europe, NAFTA (North America) and Asia. In accordance with BASF’s
long-term strategy, manufacturing capabilities in each region were
targeted to receive major investments, with the eventual aim of
increasing locally manufactured content to 70 per cent and above.
Decision making was to be non-confrontational; where possible,
executives sought to forge a consensus through compromise, with the
overall aim of maintaining the long-term health and profits of the BASF
Group as a whole. In fact, the ability to compromise represented a
crucial career skill within BASF culture; without it, few executives could
hope to advance!
Sources: Crawford and Schütte (2000); BASF Corporate information (2016). Reproduced with
permission.



Advantages of the matrix organizational models

The multidimensional matrix design is supposed to internalize the
pressures for global efficiency, leverage and local responsiveness, as
well as achieving synergies among businesses. The mechanism is
twofold: at the business level, the global dimension is represented by
the executive in charge of the worldwide product division, while the
local dimension is in the hands of the business units in the countries.
The synergies among businesses are achieved at the region or
country level by the regional or national manager. Take, for example,
the case of a power-generation firm selling a large project to a public
utility in Venezuela through international bids. The national salespeople
will be in contact with the customer at the pre-bidding stage,
discussing specifications and bidding modalities. To make an effective
proposition, several divisions have to be involved: one for turbines, one
for generators, one for transformation and one for regulation. A
bidding task force will be gathered by the Venezuelan national
manager in order to coordinate the bids of the various divisions.
Assuming that the company wins the contract, the national manager
will be credited with the sales and the profit on these sales, while each
product division will be credited with the sales and the profits for their
respective product offering. The project manager in Venezuela will
effectively report to the national manager as well as to the different
divisions, managing the tensions between the various ‘bosses’. By
forcing the project managers to make the necessary trade-off
between the product divisions and national management, the matrix
structure is intended to optimize the dual requirements of global
efficiency and local responsiveness.

Disadvantages of the multi-business matrix organizational
model

Matrix organizations are complex and may lead to power struggles
that cancel out their expected benefits.7 There are five main pitfalls of
matrix structures:

•     Role ambiguity. Middle managers operating in matrix structures
    are frequently placed in situations where their ‘dual bosses’ put
    pressure on them to achieve conflicting objectives. While,
    theoretically, the matrix organization is designed to force those
  managers to ‘solve’ these conflicts, in reality it does not. Managers
  will follow whatever instructions they consider come from the ‘most
  powerful boss’. The matrix becomes an illusion.
•      Dilution of responsibilities. In order to make a matrix work
  properly, numerous formal conflict resolution mechanisms must be
  in place, particularly committees, meetings and task forces.
  Decisions take a long time and, at the end of the day, it is very
  difficult to untangle who is responsible for what. In case of failure or
  mistake, it is always possible to find excuses for decisions made by
  an anonymous unaccountable committee.
•   Cost inefficiencies. Coordination costs of matrix structures – such
  as travel, communication, time spent in meetings and delays in
  making decisions – tend to rise very rapidly without any
  compensation in competitive benefits.
• Turf battles. By design, matrix structures require product divisions
  and national managers to assert their power, leading to numerous
  territorial conflicts. The worst scenario is when customers
  themselves become involved in the conflict, receiving different value
  propositions, for instance, from different organizational units.
•      Costs of compromise. The main danger of the dual tension
  resolution implied in the matrix design is that of compromise. In
  order to satisfy both of their ‘two bosses’, managers may adopt
  middle-of-the-road solutions, ultimately leading to mediocre
  decisions. To take an example of such an outcome, let us consider
  a lubricant company: the salespeople in Japan ask for eleven
  different sizes of cans to serve the motorist market. The global
  product division has decided that five sizes of can are sufficient to
  cover the market’s needs and that it is more cost-effective to focus
  on those five types of can. Here is a typical conflict between global
  efficiency (five sizes) and local responsiveness (the Japanese
  market demands eleven sizes). A matrix structure may encourage
  the local lubricant manager to ‘compromise’ and propose seven
  sizes: a decision that will not satisfy the Japanese customer, but will
  still increase costs.
These pitfalls have encouraged many corporations to abandon this
type of structural design and return to a simpler product or
geographical organization structure. However, this does not overcome
the fact that in a global company the tensions between efficiency,
leverage and responsiveness are constant and inevitable, like
‘breathing’. If the matrix structure that is supposed to achieve a
symbiotic reconciliation between various competitive requirements
does not fulfil this reconciliation, how can it be achieved?

Alternative structural models

Customer-centred structures

Since the 1990s, customer-centred structures have gained in
popularity among companies who are especially conscious of their
positioning and value proposition to customers. This strong customer
focus has prompted some companies (e.g. Reuters and SingTel) to
restructure their organization and form departments based on
customer groups (defined by industrial sector for business customers,
and by socioeconomic categories for private consumers). By having
designated staff specializing in customer groups, customer needs can
be better catered for, improving company responsiveness. Customer-
centred structures are similar in concept to product divisional design
described earlier.
   With increased customer convenience and responsiveness,
however, comes the trade-off of reduced technical competence
among the staff of the service provider. Since each person is now
serving a customer group, their knowledge is spread across the wide
range of products which are being offered to that particular customer
group. It could be argued that customers may not be expecting
flawless technical advice (e.g. details of printer specifications) or may
not be able to discern that ineffective ‘expert’ advice is due to a lack of
knowledge or underlying uncertainty surrounding the advice (e.g. a
bank’s investment advice given to customers).
Complex dual structural models

As mentioned earlier, the logic behind dual models is to create within
the global organization a mix of different designs. For instance,
Citibank built an organization in which a global product division design
(consumer banking and corporate banking), a geographical design
(country subsidiaries) and a single matrix design for global account
management co-exist. Another example is provided by 3M in Europe,
which has adopted a global product division design in the form of
European Business Centers (EBCs), which comprise pan-European
product line organizations reporting to the US main product divisions in
charge of R&D, manufacturing and technical services to customers.
The geographical dimension is represented by regional subsidiaries,
which are in charge of the operational results within the countries.8
The ACER group had in the past similarly divided its global operations
into two categories: strategic business units (SBUs) which essentially
develop products and manufacture components in world-class
factories, and regional business units (RBUs), which are locally based
and in charge of assembling, marketing and sales (see Mini-case 14.2
at the end of the chapter). The dual complex designs offer the
flexibility to take care of the many specifics of contexts and
businesses without locking managers into the straitjacket of a unique
organizational design. The obvious pitfalls of these designs are their
complexity, which requires from managers a culture similar to that
advocated by the ‘transnational’ model.

The transnational model

Contrary to the other models presented earlier, the transnational
organizational design model does not focus on organizational structure
but on management processes and culture.9 The transnational design
does not prescribe any particular organizational structure, but
recognizes that a global organization is made up of four types of
differentiated managerial roles:
•   Global business managers act as strategists, architects of asset
  distribution and competencies lever-aging, and coordinators of
  global activities
•    National managers act as detectors of local opportunities and
  threats, builders of national resources and contributors to global
  competitive development
•      Functional managers act as specialists, looking after new
  developments and making sure that best practices are shared and
  transferred across the organization
•    Corporate managers act as overall organizational leaders and
  developers of talent.

These four roles can be distributed within a global product, a
geographical or a matrix structure, the important thing being that
managers develop a ‘matrix in the mind’.
  The seven key features of the transnational design are:

•    Business units are part of a network, which follows the principle of
    reciprocal dependencies.
•      A non-dominant dimension – all roles are important for
  competitive success and therefore no dimension, global, functional
  or geographical, predominates.
•   A clearly defined and tightly controlled set of operating systems,
  and in particular of a transparent and multidimensional information
  system.
• Good interpersonal relationships.
•   Inter-unit decision forums with active participation of global and
  functional managers in subsidiaries’ boards.
• Strong corporate values.
•   A culture of sharing and willingness to collaborate.

Since the transnational model does not rely on a formal organizational
structure it is difficult to find companies that obviously and overtly
assume the form of a pure transnational model. However, a variety of
companies insert in their human resource and coordinating practices a
lot of the features of this type of global design.10
   As an example, the Acer group mentioned in 2011 that its
organization was based upon ‘the promotion of the spirit of teamwork
to enhance company’s overall competitiveness, and encourage closer
communication between front-end and back-end management teams
for better mutual understanding’.11
   Since 1990, global corporations have come to understand that the
search for an ideal structure is futile, and that what matters more is
the way managers behave. Most of them have now invested in the
development of attitudes, skills and behaviour in line with the
‘transnational’ model (see Figure 14.7).




Figure 14.7 Convergence of global organizational designs

  An example of a transnational model of organization is provided by
the globally integrated enterprise initiated by IBM and briefly
described in Example 14.6.
EXAMPLE 14.6 Strategy and organizational structure: IBM
from the 1990s to the 2020s

International Business Machine (IBM), created in 1911 (under a
different name) developed during the most part of the twentieth
century as the leading multinational corporation in the computer
industry. Since the 1960s the global structure was a product/services-
geography products serving 150 countries.
   In the early 1990s, confronted with strong competitive pressure, the
newly appointed CEO, Louis Gerstner (1993–2002), introduced the
strategic concept of ‘going to market as one IBM’ which was
translated into a reorganization leading to the creation of a ‘Worldwide
Management Council’ made up of geographical leaders as well as
products/services divisions. One of the key decisions was to globalize
the sales organization under the product/service groups. Sales people
in countries were reporting to product divisions managers. The
strategic focus was to transform IBM from a product company to a
solution company implying the combination of several products and
services.
   In 2006, Sam Palmisano, the new CEO, continued the ‘solution
selling’ strategy and accordingly reorganized the firm into two broad
business segments:
   Global Technology Services (GTS), concerned with the delivery of
technology services (both hardware and software), including
outsourcing the management of customers’ information systems and
equipment, integrated technology services and maintenance.
   Global Business Services (GBS) dealt with professional services,
delivering solutions to customers: consulting, systems integration and
application management services.
   Both segments are combined into what Palmisano called the
‘globally integrated enterprise’.12 The idea behind the globally
integrated enterprise is to ‘operate with one set of processes, shared
services and broadly distributed decision making, carried out by a
highly skilled global workforce managed by a common set of values’.13
   Virginia Rometty succeeded Palmisano in 2012 and wanted to put
IBM at the forefront of new technological development such as cloud
services, artificial intelligence and cognitive computing. She undertook
a massive business portolio by divesting some business (for instance
PC business sold to Lenovo, retail stores to Toshiba) and acquiring
others in healthcare, cloud computing, data analysis, security and
weather. She reorganized the sales forces into unified, industry-based
customer account and solutions teams.14
   When Rometty’s tenure was over and she was replaced by Arvind
Krishna it appeared that performances between GTS and GBS had
been unequal. The new CEO decided to split the company and on 8
October 2020 the spin-off of the Managed Infrastructure Services unit
of the Global Technology segment became a new public company
named Kyndryl:15
   The two entities are due to operate according to their respective
strategic focus:

•   IBM, with $9 billion in revenues, concentrates on hybrid cloud and
  AI through five business segments: Cloud & Cognitive Software,
  Global Business Services, Global Technology Services, Systems
  and Global Financing. 175 counties are served with country-based
  operations that serve clients using the resources provided by the
  business segment specialists
•      Kyndryl, with $19 billion in revenues and 90,000 employees,
  focuses on managing infrastructure and services to customers in
  115 countries, with 4,600 big corporate clients supported by six
  global practices: Cloud; Applications, Data & AI; Security &
  Resiliency; Core Enterprise & zCloud; Network & Edge; Digital
  Workplace. According to Martin Schroeder, CEO of Kyndryl,
  ‘Kyndryl is meeting customers where they are on their digital
  transformation journeys, with a lean and focused team that has the
  critical skills they depend on to succeed. Our country leaders and
  managing partners will be empowered to work closely with
  customers, make quick decisions and access the best global talent
  in the industry.’ 16
Digitally enabled organizations

Digital technologies have brought major structural change in the way of
doing business, hence affecting the way global companies operate.
   First, Industry 4.0 manufacturing technologies made it possible to
locate smaller and more flexible facilities close to customers. Second,
digital platforms, such as Airbnb or Uber, allow easy access to
customers and local partners. Third, services such as online
diagnostics and maintenance mean it is possible to provide customized
solutions to customers.
   These three digital developments give locally based customer facing
teams more decision-making freedom. In a series of papers, the
Boston Consulting Group (BCG) analysed the consequences of what it
calls ‘New Business Models for a New Global Landscape’.17
According to this research, multinational companies will move from
hierarchical vertical teams within businesses or regions, towards
horizontal teams enabled by global collaboration platforms that allow
members to communicate in real time. This leads to a dispersion of
decisions to customer-facing teams without losing control of some
products and services thanks to digitalization (see Figure 14.8).
However ‘digitization is enabling companies to centralize some
functions and processes therefore allows for the simultaneous
decentralization and centralization of processes, functions, and
decision rights’.18
Figure 14.8 New business models for a new global landscape
Source: Bhattacharya, Khanna, Schweizer and Bijapurkar (2017).

  Digitalization also enables centralization of monitoring and control of
some global processes such as distributed factories or global supply
chains. An example of a digitally enabled organization is given in
Example 14.7 and in Mini-case 14.1, at the end of the chapter.


EXAMPLE 14.7 Example of a digitally enabled structure:
GitLab

GitLab was created in 2011 by Dmitriy Zaporozhets in Ukraine as an
individual start-up to develop open source tools to automate software
development cycles. Joined by Sid Sijbrandij as CEO, Gitlab was
incorporated in 2014 in Holland with a team of nine people. In 2015,
despite the company’s working principle as an ‘all remote company’,
almost the entire GitLab team flew to Silicon Valley. There were no
headquarters (except for postal and legal purposes) – it was ‘all
remote’ by design. Employees could work anywhere they chose,
which applied to all levels in the hierarchy. Since they were spread
across almost every time zone, there were no predetermined working
hours – they could choose the time they preferred. Even hiring,
onboarding and firing happened remotely. In 2014, Gitlab’s team grew
by another 100 people to more than 140 in total and in 2016 the
number of people that contributed to GitLab grew to more than 1,000.
More than 100,000 organizations and millions of users were using
GitLab. By 2020, more than 3,000 people had contributed to GitLab.
The GitLab Inc. team consists of 1,315 team members.
    We’re the world’s largest all-remote organization and we currently have team members in
    66 countries and regions. With over 1,200 team members in more than 65 countries,
    GitLab is now the world’s largest all-remote company. Every single team member is
    remote, with no central headquarters and no company-owned offices anywhere in the
    world. GitLab has experienced 50x growth since 2016, reaching US$100M revenue in 2020
    and the company was valued at $2.75 billion.

The organization is based on two settings:

1      Functions: The backbone of the organization: Engineering,
 Marketing, Sales, Customer support, Product, Finance, People,
 Legal
2 Working groups that are a temporary arrangement of people from
 different functions whose task is to achieve a particular business
 goal. A working group disbands when the goal is achieved (defined
 by exit criteria) so that GitLab does not accrue bureaucracy.
GitLab does not have an internationalization group. That responsibility is shared across many
groups. GitLab documents the organizational processes in a handbook that describes how the
company is run – it consists of over 10,000 pages of text.
Sources: https://about.gitlab.com/company/history/; https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/
(accessed 1 February 2022); Puranam and Minervini (2020).



Holocracy: an organization without structure

Defined as an organization where ‘authority and decision making are
distributed throughout a holarchy of self-organizing teams rather than
a management hierarchy’,19 holocracy (sometimes referred as
holacracy20) is based on three principles: 1) no job title or manager; 2)
no hierarchy of managers; 3) every role is accountable. This concept
was apparent in 2002 at Google when the company ‘experimented
with a completely flat organization, eliminating engineering managers
in an effort to break down barriers to rapid idea development and to
replicate the collegial environment they’d enjoyed in graduate
school’.21 The experimentation was abandoned because it created
chaos: too many questions were raised with no priority (see
https://www.compli.com/blog/what-google-learned-by-trying-to-
eliminate-managers/).
   In another case, in 2013 Tony Hsieh, CEO of Zappos, an online
shoes and clothing company, introduced a new, complex self-
management system inspired by holacracy.22 This was progressively
disbanded after Amazon’s acquisition of the business. Most holocracy
experiments were essentially carried out in the USA and were
discontinued; there is no clear example of a global, multinational
application of the concept.

Regional headquarters in global management
Many multinational corporations have established regional
headquarters (RHQs) in order to support and control their global
expansion. The motivation for setting up an RHQ is the recognition that
there are significant regional differences which are too complex, too
deep-rooted, and too large to be handled from a far-away corporate
headquarters.23 In essence the establishment of a regional
headquarters is an intermediary organizational device between a
purely global approach directed from the corporate headquarters and
a fully decentralized structure based on national subsidiaries’
autonomy. The classic locations for regional headquarters have been
Brussels or Geneva for Europe, Hong Kong or Singapore for Asia and
Miami for Central and South America. Africa and the Middle East have
been traditionally integrated with Europe. However, some companies
may choose different locations according to their business
characteristics.
  Regional headquarters have two main roles:
•       Entrepreneurship-enhancing roles: such as scouting new
  opportunities, strategy development and implementation, strategic
  stimulation, intelligence gathering, new business development and,
  more generally, signalling the strategic commitment of the company
  to local governments and to the business divisions.
• Integrating administrative roles more directly with local operations:
  pooling resources for greater efficiency and effectiveness,
  benchmarking and spreading best practices, coordinating activities
  across borders and business divisions. The aim here is to achieve
  synergies and consistency. 24

If we take those two dimensions separately we find four role profiles,
as shown in Figure 14.9.




Figure 14.9 Profiles of regional headquarters in global firms
Source: Lasserre (1996).

   The first of these profiles, the administrator, is for RHQs limiting
themselves to clerical activities such as taxation, legal services or
finance. There are no or very few entrepreneurial functions, these
being either directly governed from the corporate centre or left to the
local subsidiaries.
   The second profile, the coordinator, would describe an RHQ whose
function is essentially to integrate and coordinate activities, to manage
some central operations such as logistics, sourcing, training, and
making sure that synergies across subsidiaries are taking place.
   The third profile, the initiator, would consist of an RHQ in charge of
only strategic development, information gathering and initiating deals.
   Finally, the facilitator profile would describe an RHQ that fulfils both
entrepreneurial and integrating roles.
   Over time these roles may change. It would not be unusual for a
company that wants to enter a region to start with a regional office
that concentrates on entrepreneurial and strategic developments – an
initiator profile. In time it may need to become a facilitator not only in
order to stimulate strategic development but also to provide support
and synergies to the operations.
   When the businesses are well established in the region, the role of
the RHQ may lessen to that of a coordinator or even an administrator.
   Such a development is not always the case and in some companies
the role of the RHQ increases instead of decreasing.25
   Schütte26 has identified three types of regional headquarter (Figure
14.10):

1    The global RHQ is characterized by a strong alignment of its staff
    with corporate headquarters. Global RHQs tend to be in charge of
    a limited number of global businesses and report to a senior
    manager who is responsible for these businesses on a worldwide
    basis. The RHQ can therefore be considered as an extension of
    the corporate HQ, staffed primarily by managers seconded from
    that HQ, who see themselves as enforcers and controllers. It will
    coordinate functional activities such as finance and human resource
    management, and can represent the corporate HQ in board
    meetings of the subsidiaries and during discussions with
    governments. It will, however, be less involved in synergy
    development between different businesses. It will also be relatively
    weak in representing regional concerns at headquarters. The
  advantage of the global RHQ lies in its simplicity: the organization
  is streamlined and focused. However, there are problems
  associated with the global RHQ. The main issue is that as an agent
  of corporate headquarters, the regional office downgrades the role
  of regional and national managers to implementers. This can lead
  to demotivation, the loss of local initiative and reduced feedback
  from the region.
2 The multi-domestic RHQ operates in a geographical environment
  which is perceived to be different from other parts of the world.
  The staff of the RHQ feel strongly committed to the region and
  obliged to fight for the region or defend it against pressures for
  globalization originating from HQ. The multi-domestic RHQ acts as
  a representative body of the operating units in the region and of
  their concerns. It therefore relies heavily on consensus between
  them and on their support. Its main purpose is to amplify the views
  of these local subsidiaries, which individually are too small to carry
  much weight at HQ. The advantage of this particular RHQ model
  lies in the devotion of the managers to the cause of the region.
  Ideally, the staff working in a multi-domestic RHQ will include
  managers from the region or at least expatriates with a long track
  record in the region. Strong advocacy of regional concerns may
  lead to a view of the world which is too one-sided and therefore
  not in the overall interest of the multinational corporation (MNC).
  The multi-domestic RHQ is a suitable model for an MNC needing to
  build a closer network in a region and win more recognition at HQ.
  It may be ideal for MNCs in which a region is not yet fully
  positioned on the mental map of the world or is still considered
  peripheral. The structure has the potential of creating a strong
  organizational unit in the corporation.
3 The transnational RHQ is a structure in which there is recognition
  of the need for global integration but at the same time the
  characteristics of the region distinguish it from other regions and
  so an appropriate approach is required. For practical reasons the
  transnational RHQ has to have an organizational structure which
  allows both the global and local forces to exert influence on
decision making at the regional level. The matrix organization offers
such a structure, with geographical concerns represented by sub-
regions or countries and business concerns by product divisions or
SBUs. The advantages of the transnational RHQ operating through
a matrix organization are obvious. It serves as a regional forum
where conflicting interests can be brought together for negotiation
and solution. Over time, this experience leads to better
understanding and a common spirit within the region. Synergies are
possible between businesses and countries as well as across
businesses and countries. When sufficient delegation takes place
at HQ, the transnational RHQ emerges as a powerful
organizational unit where decisions for the region are made without
recourse to HQ. However, as mentioned earlier, the experience
with matrix organizations in general is not wholly satisfactory. A
second drawback of the transnational RHQ relates to the tendency
to create a large, if not overblown, regional organization in order to
accommodate all interested parties. In the extreme case an
existing matrix at HQ level is simply replicated in the region, an
arrangement which will not be well received in times of lean
management and de-layering. Bearing in mind its advantages and
disadvantages, the transnational RHQ emerges as a suitable
model for large, experienced and diversified MNCs with mature
regional managers. Through its flexible structure, it allows a
multitude of perspectives, and maintains the balance between
global and local needs without allowing one to dominate the other.
Figure 14.10 Organizational structure of regional headquarters
Source: Authors’ own, derived from text of Evans et al. (2011).

As indicated earlier, the organizational structure of RHQs may evolve
over time according to the different roles assigned to them.

An alternative to regional headquarters: the gateway–hub
structure

Proposed by C. K. Prahalad and Hrishi Battacharya27 the gateway–
hub model consists of a global company selecting ten gateway
countries in the developed world and ten in the emerging world. These
gateways have authority over most management decisions and serve
as hubs for developing and coordinating activities in surrounding
countries.
MINI-CASE 14.1

Siemens Vision 2020+

Telegraphenbauanstalt von Siemens & Halske was founded in
1847 by Werner von Siemens to produce telegraph pointers. In
2020, the Siemens Group generated revenue of €57.1 billion and
employed 293,000 employees worldwide in 92 countries across
Europe, Asia, the Americas, Africa, the Middle East and the
Pacific.
   In the early days the company defined itself as an international
technologically innovative powerhouse. It expanded its business
from telegraph to eleva-tors, telecommunication, railways,
medical devices, power generation, semiconductors.28 Siemens
was an early adopter of globalized business practices, opening
offices in the second half of the nineteenth century in the major
capitals of Europe, Russia and the Americas. Over the years
Siemens has adapted its organizational structure in accordance
with its global development. Starting from a centralized
organizational structure overseeing countries subsidiaries, its
major global structure was set up in 2008 around the three major
global businesses called sectors (Industry, Energy and
Healthcare), supervising 16 different business divisions serving
various offerings (see Figure 14.11).
Figure 14.11 Siemens’ new company structure on 1 January 2008

   Countries were grouped in regional organizations. In 2014, the
number of divisions was reduced from 16 to 10. However, the
major organizational change came with a major strategic
redefinition named Vision 2020+ with the purpose ‘to provide
Siemens’ individual companies with greater business freedom
under the strong Siemens brand, in order to sharpen their
attention in their respective market’.29 In 2020, the company
described its organization as a group of three major sectors:
Smart Infrastructure (connected energy, building and industries),
Digital Industries (Automation and Digitalization, Mobility (rail,
electric infrastructure), plus Siemens Advanta (Consulting,
business services, applications that offer comprehensive support
to customers in their digital transformation)) and portfolio
companies (six companies that are run independently). Siemens
also created Next 45, an independent global venture to support
new business developments. Each company has entrepreneurial
freedom to sharpen its customer focus and orient its activities to
the requirements of the industries in which it operates. The
country subsidiaries act as one company in each country, with
close collaboration between the businesses. They are
empowered to serve customers, to create market opportunities
and drive growth in the most efficient set-up.
   This new business architecture relies on data mining and
artificial intelligence through MindSphere® – an industrial
information technology that provides solutions using advanced
analytics and AI. According to BCG Consulting ‘MindSphere, a
data and analytics platform developed by Siemens, is being rolled
out across all businesses, regions, and local offices to securely
collect and analyze data from digitally connected equipment
deployed around the world. Large, labor-intensive global plants
are giving way to smaller, highly automated factories located
closer to customers to provide greater flexibility and faster
delivery.’30




Figure 14.12 Siemens’ company structure in 2020
MINI-CASE 14.2

ACER’s global organizational evolution

The ACER group, created in Taiwan in 1976, was by 2011 the
second-biggest PC and notebook company in the world. With
revenue of around $20 billion it employs 8,000 people worldwide.
Since its creation, ACER has seen its global organization adapt to
follow the management philosophy of its founder Stan Shih, as
well as the industry’s evolution.
   The global organization has evolved in four stages:

•   Stage 1: Initial steps in globalization: 1976–1990
      As early as 1979 ACER (known at the time as Multitech)
      started to export personal computers combining OEM
      contracts and sales under its own brand. To manage its
      operations American executives were recruited but were
      difficult to control. They acted quite autonomously and took
      many (often misguided) initiatives. A European office was
      opened in Germany to coordinate distributors and conduct
      market research. In emerging countries such as Thailand,
      Indonesia, Brazil, Chile, Argentina, South Africa, Mexico
      and India, ACER initiated a series of joint ventures. By
      1990 it became obvious that the international operation
      needed to be reorganized.
•   Stage 2: Creating a multinational organization: 1990–2000
      Stan Shih organized the global operation according to the
      client–server principle. The business units are divided into
      two broad categories: the SBUs, which essentially develop
      products and manufacture components in world-class
      factories, and the RBUs, which are locally based and are in
       charge of assembly, marketing and sales. Each unit is at
       the same time client and server, as shown in Figure 14.10.
       Stan Shih wanted local company managers to own a local
    shareholding of equity. ‘At the heart of the client–server
    organization lies a closely linked team of mature and
    experienced managers committed to long-term success of
    their own piece of the ACER group. Mutual understanding and
    trust, communication and consensus are the cornerstone of
    ACER management.’31




Figure 14.13 ACER’s organizational model

•   Stage 3: The early 2000s
       In December 2000, J. T. Wang was appointed as the
       president of ACER, responsible for turning around ACER
       PCs worldwide. At the time, the ACER group employed
       around 37,000 people in 232 enterprises in 41 countries
       supporting a network of distributors in 100 countries. In
       2001 the bursting of the internet bubble precipitated a
       decline in PC sales. Wang initiated a profound restructuring.
       He introduced a more centrally integrated approach based
      on three global principles: One Global Company, One
      Global Brand and One Global Team.
         – The principle of One Global Company led to the
              delisting of all locally listed international subsidiaries
              and the repurchase of all minority shares by ACER
              Inc. The group was reorganized: at first into three
              divisions, that ultimately were reduced to two, after
              the spin-off of one of them:
       •     ACER Brand Operation (ABO) whose responsibility
         was to design, market and distribute products across
         the world.
       •       The Design, Manufacturing and Service Division
         (DSM) in charge of R&D, manufacturing and service of
         all IT products. DSM was spun-off in 2001.
       •       The third organizational leg was the Holding and
         Investment Business that was in charge of all financial
         matters, taking care of ACER’s holdings in various
         businesses.
         – The principle of One Global Brand stated that only
              the ACER brand could be used for IT products.
         – The principle of One Global Team required that all
              managers abandon their parochial concerns.
•   Stage 4: Beyond 2010
      In 2007 ACER bought Gateway and Packard Bell and
      became the number two world provider of notebooks. It
      relies now on four global brands: ACER, Gateway, Packard
      Bell and E Machines. By 2011 the ACER organization was
      still based on the principle of One Global Team sharing
      strong corporate values, with operations divided into:
          – Regional operations: Europe/Middle East/ Africa
             (EMEA), Pan America, Taiwan, China, Asia Pacific
          – Global operations: PCs Global, Smart handheld
             Business, Channels, Marketing, E-Enabling Services
        –   Global functions: Finance, Human Resources, Legal,
            General Affairs.

Three key principles underpinned ACER’s new management
structure to ensure successful decision making:

•  To promote the spirit of teamwork to enhance the company’s
  overall competitiveness, and encourage closer communication
  between management teams
•     To simplify operational systems and processes to boost
  effectiveness and speed
•   To strengthen corporate governance and enhance company
  sustainability.

ACER in 2021

According to documentation provided by the company, the
organizational structure and decision-making process were
centred on five global businesses: IT Products, Digital Display,
Smart Products, e-business and Value Lab, plus four regional
offices: Asia Pacific and Europe, Middle East Africa, Americas
and China.

Questions:

1    What were the major hurdles to ACER becoming a global
  company? How did it overcome them?
2 During its initial phase of global development, ACER relied on
  OEM, alliances and acquisitions, and had a decentralized
  management. Why? What are the pros and cons of such a
  strategy?
3   What do you think are the advantages and disadvantages of
  the client–server principle for global competitiveness?
4     What were the reasons behind ACER’s strategic and
  organizational changes in 2001 and in 2020? Analyse the
    advantages and disadvantages of such changes.

Summary and key points
1     A global business organization should balance the following
    dual requirements:
    a      To efficiently maintain competitive advantages across
       borders
    b To adapt to local conditions
2   Organizational designs
    a   There are three main models of organizational design:
        •    Global hub: a worldwide functional or global product
          structure
        • Geographical: a multi-countries structure
        •     Multidimensional: a matrix or transnational structure
    b       There are three key elements of organizational design:
        •       Organizational structure: assignment of roles,
          responsibilities and power
        •    Organizational processes: decision making, resource
          allocation, rewards and appraisal systems, planning and
          control
        • Organizational culture: shared values, reward system.
    c    Types of organizational design (or model) (see the
      summary table of the common types of model in online
      Appendix 14.1)
    d The transnational model:
        •     Is different from the other organizational designs
          because it focuses on management processes and
          culture instead of organizational structures
        • Possesses seven main features:
            – a network of business units
        –    a non-dominant dimension
        –      a clearly defined and tightly controlled set of
            information systems
       – good interpersonal relationships
       – inter-unit decision forums
       – strong corporate values
       – a willingness to share and collaborate
f   There are alternative models
        – Customer-centred structures
        – Complex dual structural models
        – Digitally enabled organizations
        – Holocracy
e Most global companies have now realized that the search
  for an ideal structure is futile and have invested in the
  development of attitudes, skills and behaviours which are
  in line with the transnational model
f   Many multinational corporations have established regional
  headquarters (RHQs) in order to support and control their
  global expansion
  There are two major roles for regional headquarters:
  entrepreneurial and integrating, leading to four types of
  RHQ:
        –       Initiator: high on entrepreneurial role/low on
            integrating
        –      Coordinator: high on integrating role/low on
           entrepreneurial
        – Facilitator: high on both dimensions
        – Administrator: low on both dimensions
    •   An RHQ’s organization reflects the corporate design:
      global, multi-local or transnational
       •    As an alternative to regional headquarters, a company
           can designate gateway countries serving as hubs in key
           parts of the world

Learning assignments
1   What are the benefits of having a geographical organization?
2    What are the typical difficulties in implementing a matrix
  organization?
3 What are the characteristics of the transnational model?
4   To what extent does the transnational model differ from the
  other organizational model?
5 Is holocracy a managerial illusion?
6     What does digital technology bring to global organizational
    design?
7   Does digital technology favour geographical decentralization
  or functional centralization?
8 What is the role of a ‘coordinator’ regional headquarters?

Key words
•   Digitally enabled organization
•   ‘Dotted-line’ relationship
•   Global hub
•   Holocracy
•   International divisions
•   Matrix
•   Organizational culture
•   Organizational processes
•   Organizational structure
     •   Regional headquarters
     •   Transnational

     Web resources
     Booz Allen Consulting (see section on Ideas and Insights:
     strategy and organization):
     http://www.boozallen.com/insights
     BCG Consulting:
     https://www.bcg.com/featured-insights/thought-leadership-
     ideas.aspx
     Euromonitor Interntional (provides industry data):
     http://www.euromonitor.com/



     Companion website

     Visit the companion website at bloomsbury.pub/global-strategic-
     management-5e for a multitude of weblinks and resources, self-
     test questions for revision and appendices.


Notes
1  Wouter et al. (2014).
2  Dewhurst, Harris and Heywood (2011).
3  Prahalad (1986).
4  Stopford and Wells (1972).
5  Ibid.
6  Ackenhausen (1993b).
7  Peters (1979); Bazigos and Harter (2016).
8  Ackenhausen (1993b). White Paper (2007).
9  Bartlett and Ghoshal (1989, 1990, 1992).
10 Bazigos and Harter (2016), Revisiting the Matrix, McKinsey Quarterly.
11       Acer appoints      Jim   Wong as          Corporate President’,     April   2011,
   https://www.acer.com/ac/fr/FR/press/2013/72670 (accessed 28 January 2022).
12 IBM White Paper (2007).
13 Deviney et al. (2012).
14   Kanter and Cohen (2017).
15   IBM Newsroom (2021).
16   IBM Annual Report (202O).
17   Bhattacharya, Reeves, Lang and Augustinra (2018).
18   Bhattacharya, Khanna, Schweizer and Bijapurkar (2017)
19   Rud (2009).Robertson (2015).
20   Brian (2015à).
21   Garvin (2013: 75).
22   O’Rourke (2017).
23   Lasserre and Schütte (2006: Ch. 9).
24   Lasserre (1996).
25   Guey-Huey et al. (2010).
26   Schütte (1998).
27   Prahalad and Battacharya (2008).
28   von Karczewski (2018).
29   https://www.siemens.com/vision2020plus/en.html (accessed 1 February 2022).


References and further reading
Ackenhusen, M. (1993a) ‘BS-International Service System A/S’, INSEAD Case Study 11/
  93/4220.
Ackenhusen, M. (1993b) ‘The 3M Company: integrating Europe’, INSEAD Case Study 06/
  94/4317.
Aghina, W., De Smet, A. and Heywood S. (2014) ‘The past and future of global organizations’,
  McKinsey Quarterly, September: 1–10.
Bartlett, C. A. (1983) ‘MNCs: get off the reorganization merry-go-round’, Harvard Business
  Review, 61 (2): 138–46.
Bartlett, C. A. and Ghoshal, S. (1989) Managing Across Borders: The Transnational Solution
  (Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press).
Bartlett, C. A. and Ghoshal, S. (1990) ‘Matrix management: not a structure, a frame of mind’,
  Harvard Business Review, 68 (4): 138–45.
Bartlett, C. A. and Ghoshal, S. (1992) ‘What is a global manager?’, Harvard Business Review,
  70 (5): 124–32.
Bazigos, M. and Harter, J. (2016) ‘Revisiting the matrix organization’, McKinsey Quarterly,
  January: 1–87.
Bhattacharya, A., Khanna, D., Schweizer, C. and Bijapurkar, A. (2017) ‘Going beyond the
  rhetoric: the new globalization’, April. https://www.bcg.com/en-gb/publications/2017/new-
  globalization-going-beyond-rhetoric
Bhattacharya, A., Reeves, M., Lang, N. and Augustinra, J. R. (2017) ‘New business models for
  a new global landscape’, Boston Consulting Group Henderson Institute.
  https://www.bcg.com/publications/2017/globalization-new-business-models-global-landscape
  (accessed 1 February 2022).
Bhattacharya, A., Reeves, M., Lang, N. and Augustinra, J. R. (2018) ‘Building the new global
  enterprise’, Boston Consulting Group Henderson Institute.
  https://www.bcg.com/publications/2018/building-new-global-enterprise (accessed 1 February
  2022).
Birkinshaw, J., et al. (2006) ‘Why do some multinational corporations relocate their
  headquarters overseas?’, Strategic Management Journal, 27 (7): 681–700.
Centre for Asian Business Cases (2001) ‘Acer: the reorganization’, Hong Kong.
Clyde-Smith, D. and Williamson, P. (1997) ‘The ACER group: building an Asian multinational’,
  INSEAD Euro Asia Centre Case Study 01/ 98-4712.
Crawford, R. and Schütte, H. (2000) ‘BASF: working the matrix in Asia’, INSEAD Euro Asia
  Centre Case Study 04/2999-4845.
Davis, S. M. (1979) Managing and Organizing Multinational Corporations (Oxford: Pergamon
  Press).
Decreton, B., Dellestrand, H., Kappen, P., et al. (2017) ‘Beyond simple configurations: the dual
  involvement of divisional and corporate headquarters in subsidiary innovation activities in
multibusiness firms’, Management International Review, 57 (6): 855–78.
Del Carpio, L., Doz, Y. and Guadalupe, M. (2017) ‘Embracing digital: ING’s journey to a new way
  of working’, INSEAD Case Study. 11/2018-6316.
DeViney. N. et al. (2012) ‘Becoming a globally integrated enterprise: lessons on enabling
  organizational and cultural change’, IBM Journal of Research and Development, 56 (6), Nov–
  Dec.
Dewhurst, M., Harris, J. and Heywood, S. (2011) ‘Understanding your globalization penalty’,
  McKinsey Quarterly, July: 1–17.
Doz, Y. (2016) ‘Managing multinational operations from organizational structure to mental
  structures and from operations to innovation’, European Journal of International
  Management, 10 (1): 10–24.
Doz, Y. (2017) ‘The strategic decisions that caused Nokia’s failure’, INSEAD Knowledge.
  https://knowledge.insead.edu/strategy/the-strategic-decisions-that-caused-nokias-failure-
  7766 (accessed 6 June 2022).
Doz, Y. (2021), ‘the fundamentals of transforming matrix to agile’, INSEAD Knowledge.
  https://knowledge.insead.edu/strategy/the-fundamentals-of-transforming-from-matrix-to-agile-
  16181 (accessed 28 January 2022).
Flamant, A.-C., Fugjimura, S. and Willes, P. (2000) ‘Renault and Nissan: a marriage of reason’,
  INSEAD Case Study 10/2001-4928.
Franko, L. (1976) The European Multinationals (New York, NY: Harper & Row).
Garvin, D. (2013) ‘How Google sold its engineers on management’, Harvard Business Review,
  December: 75.
Ghazzawi, I. A. (2013/14) ‘Café Britt: a Costa Rica pride’, Business Case Journal, Fall/Winter,
  21 (1).
Ghoshal, S. (1993) ‘BS-International Service System A/S’, INSEAD Case Study 11/ 93/4220.
Guey-Huey, L., Yu, C.-M. and Seetoo, D.-H. (2010) ‘Toward a theory of regional organization’,
  Management International Review, 50: 5–33.
IBM Annual Report (202O). https://www.ibm.com/investor/att/pdf/IBM_Annual_Report_2020.pdf
  (accessed 1 February 2022).
IBM Newsroom (2021) ‘Kyndryl unveils new operating model and global structure’.
  https://newsroom.ibm.com/2021-07-01-Kyndryl-Unveils-New-Operating-Model-And-Global-
  Structure (accessed 1 February 2022).
IBM White Paper (2007) ‘Developing global leadership: how IBM engages the workforce of a
  globally integrated enterprise’, IBM Global Business Services.
Kanter, R. M. and Cohen J. (2017), ‘IBM transforming: 2012–2016: Ginni Rometty steers
  Watson’, Harvard Business School Case 9 317040.
Kennedy, R. E., Montgomery, C. A., Cladderton, L. and Hogan, H. (1998) ‘Tyco International (A)’,
  Harvard Business School Case 9-798-061.
Kets de Vries, M. (1994) ‘Percy Barnevick and ABB’, INSEAD Case Study 05/94/4308.
Kumar, N. and Puranam, P. (2011) ‘Have you restruc-tured for global success?’, Harvard
  Business Review, October: 1–7.
Kunisch, S., Menz, M. and Collis, D. (2020) ‘Corporate headquarters in the twenty-first century:
  an organization design perspective’, Journal of Organizational Design, 9 (22).
  https://doi.org/10.1186/s41469-020-00086-9 (accessed 1 February 2022).
Lasserre, P. (1996) ‘Regional headquarters: the spearhead for Asia Pacific markets’, Long
  Range Planning (29): 30–7.
Lasserre, P. and Schütte, H. (2006) Strategies for Asia Pacific (Basingstoke: Palgrave
  Macmillan).
Levinthal, D. A. and Workiewicz, M. (2018) ‘When two bosses are better than one: nearly
  decom-posable systems and organizational adaptation’, Organization Science, 29 (2): 207–
  24.
Malnight, T. W. and Yoshino, M. Y. (1995) ‘Citibank: global customer management’, Harvard
  Business School Case Study 9-395-142.
Nafei, W. (2016), ‘Organizational agility: the key to organizational success’, International Journal
  of Business and Management, 11 (5): 296.
  https://www.researchgate.net/publication/301535032_Organizational_Agility_The_Key_to_Or
  ganizational_Success (accessed 1 February 2022).
Nell, P. C. and Ambos, B. (2013) ‘Parenting advantage in the MNC: an embeddedness
  perspective on the value added by headquarters’, Strategic Management Journal, 34 (4):
  1086–103.
O’Rourke, J., Golden, B. and Pandey, A. (2017) ‘Zappos com: an experiment in holacracy’,
  Case 17-13, Eugene D. Fanning Center for Business Communication, University of Notre
  Dame, Indiana.
  https://www.researchgate.net/publication/330125812_Zappos_An_Experiment_in_Holacracy
  (accessed 1 February 2022).
Pant, I., Constantini, J. and Pant, N. (2011) ‘Olam International’, INSEAD Case Study 09/2011-
  5786, and company documents.
Peters, T. (1979) ‘Beyond the matrix organization’, McKinsey Quarterly, 3.
Piskorsi, N. J. and Spadini, A. (2007) ‘Procter & Gamble (A)’, Harvard Business School Case 9-
  707-519, October.
Prahalad, C. K. (1986) ‘The dominant logic’, Strategic Management Journal, 7 (6): 485–501.
Prahalad, C. K. and Bhattacharyya, H. (2008) ‘Twenty hubs and no HQ’, Strategy + Business,
  50: 24–9.
Pucik, V., Tichy, N. M. and Barnett, C. K. (1992) Globalizing Management: Creating and Leading
  the Cooperative Organization (New York, NY: John Wiley).
Puranam, P. and Minervini, M. (2020) ‘GitLab: can “all remote” scale?’, INSEAD Case Study
  12/2020-6579 2020. https://publishing.insead.edu/case/gitlab (accessed 1 February 2022).
Puranam, P., Alexy, O. and Retzig, M. (2014) ‘What’s “new” about new forms of organizing?’,
  Academy of Management Review, 39 (2): 162–80. http://dx.doi.org/10.5465/amr.2011.0436
  (accessed 1 February 2022).
Robertson, B. J. (2015) Holacracy: The New Management System for a Rapidly Changing
  World (New York, NY: Henry Holt and Company).
Rud, O. P. (2009) Business Intelligence Success Factors: Tools for Aligning Your Business in
  the Global Economy (New Jersey, NY: John Wiley & Sons).
Salo, O. (2017) How to Create an Agile Organization, McKinsey & Company.
  https://www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/organization/our-insights/how-to-create-an-
  agile-organization (accessed 1 February 2022).
Schmitt, J., Decreton, B. and Nell, P. C. (2019) ‘How corporate headquarters add value in the
  digital age’, Journal of Organization Design, 8 (1): 1–10.
Schütte, H. (1998) ‘Between headquarters and subsidiaries: the RHQ solution’, in J. Birkinshaw
  and N. Hood (eds), Multinational Corporate Evolution and Subsidiaries Development
  (Basingstoke: Macmillan).
Shih, S., Wang, J. T. and Yeung, A. (2005) ‘Building global competitiveness in a turbulent
  environment: Acer’s journey of transformation’, in W. H. Mobley and E. Weldon (eds),
  Advances in Global Leadership, 201–17 (Bingley: Emerald Group Publishing).
Stopford, J. and Wells, L. (1972) Managing the Multinational Enterprise: Organization of the
  Firm and Ownership of the Subsidiaries (New York, NY: Basic Books).
Taylor, W. (1991) ‘The logic of global business: an interview with Percy Barnevik’, Harvard
  Business Review, 69 (2): 90–104.
Von Karczewski, J. (2018) 1847–2017 Shaping the Future, Qualities that Set Siemens Apart –
  after 170 Years. Siemens Historical Institute
Wouter, A., De Smet, A. and Heywood, S. (2014) ‘The past and future of global organizations’,
  McKinsey Quarterly, September: 1–10.
Yeung, A., Pu, B. and Qu, J. (2010) ‘Acer: competitive advantage through global integration’,
  CEIBS Business Review, August.
Part IV

Conclusions

Chapter 15 Current and future trends in globalization | This chapter is
devoted to describing some of the most salient trends that are likely
to affect firms’ global strategic management. Many of the
developments described are still ongoing, conjectural or incomplete.
When one looks at the future one has to identify the ideological,
social, demographic, political and scientific developments that affect
the world of economics and business. Some of those are already
visible today; some others are hidden or are present only in the form
of ‘weak signals’ or ‘black swans’. Finally the chapter will end by
presenting some of the critiques of globalization and discussing the
possible reversibility of the globalization process.

Chapter 16 Global strategic management in action: Haier – the
building of a global champion, 1984–2020 | This concluding chapter
comprises a long case study, tying together learning points from all
the preceding chapters in an up-to-date, practical example of a global
champion that has emerged over the last few decades.
Chapter 15

Current and future trends in
globalization




  At the end of the chapter you will be able to:

  •   Appreciate the major trends in the global economy
  •   Contribute to the building of future scenarios
  •   Identify some features of new models of global management



Introduction
As is often said, ‘the future isn’t what it used to be’. There are plenty
of examples of predictions made by experts that turned out to be
wrong. In 1989, Francis Fukuyama asserted that the world had
entered a period that he called ‘the end of history’ in which, after the
end of the Cold War, the world was increasingly dominated by liberal
democratic societies.1 This assertion was at best contentious,
although Fukuyama stood by it in a 2014 Wall Street Journal article.
The same can be said about globalization, the smooth progress of
which had seemed inevitable and unstoppable. Geopolitical disorders
following the September 11 attacks in the United States in 2001 and
the increased momentum of nationalistic and authoritarian political
regimes, as well as the financial crises of 1997 in Asia, the dotcom
bubble burst of 2001, the subprime crisis in 2008, the Eurozone’s
over-indebtedness of 2011, the British decision in 2016 to quit the
European Union (Brexit), the Covid-19 pandemic and the eruption of a
major war in Ukraine in 2022 have shown that the road toward
globalization is obstructed by many hurdles. Every year anti-
globalization protesters gather at G8, International Monetary Fund
(IMF) or World Economic Forum (WEF) meetings worldwide, in order
to demonstrate against certain aspects of globalization. Joseph
Stiglitz, a 2001 Nobel Prizewinner, criticized the global economic
policies of the IMF, World Trade Organization (WTO) and the World
Bank in his book Globalization and its Discontents .2 At the same
time, international conferences and meetings are organized by
UNESCO, UN, G20, WEF and other international agencies or private
initiatives to coordinate and promote multilateral programmes to cope
with global issues.
   Throughout the previous chapters, it has been assumed that
globalization is ineluctable, and that most corporations are building
strategies based on that assumption. The past thirty years have
evolved in that direction. If we look at the future, however, the ongoing
pursuit of globalization seems a likely scenario, but not the only one.
   This chapter is devoted to describing some of the most salient
trends that are likely to affect firms’ global strategic management.
Many of the issues described are conjectural and incomplete. When
we look at the future we have to identify the ideological, social,
demographic, political and scientific developments that affect the
world of economics and business. Some of those are already visible
today; some others are hidden or are present only in the form of
‘weak signals’3 or ‘black swans’.4
   Nevertheless, several organizations have projected future scenarios.
All come up with three possible images: a globalized world, a
fragmented world and an intermediate world in which globalization is
partially achieved.
  Figure 15.1 shows how this chapter is organized. First, some of the
most significant global challenges will be briefly described. Then we
will summarize the best-known scenarios. Finally, we will look at the
emerging theories of global management.




Figure 15.1 Global challenges and the global corporation



Global challenges5

Globalization called into question

The arguments in favour of and against globalization were introduced
in Chapter 1 (Table 1.2). This dialectic tension between the zealots
and the dissidents dominates the background of any future scenarios.
   The zealots’ point of view is best represented by a quotation from a
report published by the US National Intelligence Council (NIC) entitled
Global Trends 2015: A Dialogue about the Future with
Nongovernment Experts.6 Although published in 2000, the vision of the
future is still the one these zealots foresee:

•    ‘The networked global company will be driven by rapid and largely
    unrestricted flows of information, ideas, cultural values, capital,
    goods and services, and people: that is, globalization. This
    globalized economy will be a net contributor to increased political
    stability in the world … , although its reach and benefits will not be
    universal. In contrast to the Industrial Revolution, the process of
    globalization is more compressed. Its evolution will be rocky,
    marked by chronic financial volatility and a widening economic divide
    between and within nations.’
•     ‘The global economy, overall, will return to the high levels of growth
    reached in the 1960s and early 1970s. Economic growth will be
    driven by political pressures for higher living standards, improved
    economic policies, rising foreign trade and investment, the diffusion
    of information technologies, and an increasingly dynamic private
    sector. Potential brakes on the global economy – such as sustained
    financial crisis or prolonged disruption of energy supplies – could
    undo this optimistic projection.’
•        ‘Regions, countries, and groups feeling left behind will face
    deepening economic stagnation, political, ethnic, ideological, and
    religious extremism, along with the violence that often accompanies
    it. They will force the United States and other developed countries
    to remain focused on ‘old-world’ challenges while concentrating on
    the implications of ‘new-world’ technologies at the same time.’

  The dissenting voices are heard more and more in the countries
that have benefited the most from globalization – the OECD countries
– and their point of view can be best summarized by Rodrik:7

•       ‘First, reduced trade barriers and investment accentuate the
    asymmetry between the groups that can cross international borders
    (either directly or indirectly, say via outsourcing) and those that
    cannot.’ These semi-skilled and unskilled workers can be replaced
    by other cheaper workers abroad. This undermines the social fabric
    in the developed world.
•      ‘Second, globalization engenders conflicts within and between
    nations over domestic norms and the social institutions that embody
    them’ (such as pension funds, social security, values and culture).
•        ‘Third, globalization has made it increasingly difficulty for
    governments to provide social insurance.’ The welfare state is under
    attack.
•     ‘The question therefore is how the tension between globalization
    and the pressures for socialization of risks can be eased. If the
    tension is not managed intelligently and creatively, the danger is that
    the domestic consensus in favour of open markets will ultimately
    erode to the point where a generalized resurgence of protectionism
    becomes a serious possibility.’

  As might be expected, more extreme views are expressed by
radical activist groups. Below is an extract from a talk given by
Walden Bello, a representative of Corpwatch, during demonstrations in
Melbourne against the World Economic Forum:

        What is deglobalization?
        I am not talking about withdrawing from the international economy.
        I am speaking about reorienting our economies from production for
        export to production for the local market;

    •      about drawing most of our financial resources for development
         from within rather than becoming dependent on foreign
         investment and foreign financial markets;
    •       about carrying out the long-postponed measures of income
         redistribution and land redistribution to create a vibrant internal
         market that would be the anchor of the economy;
    •     about de-emphasizing growth and maximizing equity in order to
         radically reduce environmental disequilibrium;
    •      about not leaving strategic economic decisions to the market
         but making them subject to democratic choice;
   •     about subjecting the private sector and the state to constant
        monitoring by civil society;
   •       about creating a new production and exchange complex that
        includes community cooperatives, private enterprises, and state
        enterprises, and excludes TNC [transnational corporations];
   •      about enshrining the principle of subsidiarity in economic life by
        encouraging production of goods to take place at the community
        and national level if it can be done so at reasonable cost in order
        to preserve community.

       We are speaking, in short, about re-embedding the economy in
       society, rather than having society driven by the economy.8

   This anti-globalization view has been gaining support in the early
twenty-first century in places and among populations that had
traditionally pushed for and benefited from globalization.

Geopolitics and globalization
As mentioned in Chapter 1, the interdependence between international
politics and international trade, investment and movement of people
was considered a factor conducive to globalization. Even so,
Fukuyama’s assertion about the ‘end of history’9 was an advocacy for
a global democratic capitalism. Since then, history has taken its
‘revenge’:10 nationalistic leaders, territorial and commercial wars,
global religious assertion, ‘soft cultural’ interventions, economic
sanctions and ideological boycotts during the past twenty years have
impacted global trade and investment. Michael Witt11 defends the
perspective that the future of globalization will depend on the world’s
political configuration between ‘liberalism’ or ‘realism’. Liberalism relies
on states who manage possible conflicts of interest through
negotiations via, and contracts with, transnational governance
organizations such as the United Nations or World Trade Organization.
Realism, on the contrary, relies on ‘balance of power’. This approach
leads to a struggle between dominant nations to reach some
hegemonical position. The Cold War is a typical example of realism in
international politics. Fukuyama’s ‘end of history’ was based on the
belief of a renaissance of ‘liberalism’. The attitudes of leaders in
China, Russia, USA, Turkey and even Britain seems to indicate that
the time for ‘realism’ has come. In fact, most analysts believe that
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in early 2022 will have long lasting effects
on the global order. It implies that global firms will have to build and
organize their operations on a country by country basis in a ‘multi-
domestic’ mode. In the short-term the effects are visible in terms of
trade, investments leading to various forms of ‘reshoring’ of major
elements of value chains. Still debated are long term effects although
it seems that there is a consensus that one may expect a more
cautious approach to global investments, what the British newspaper
The Economist calls ‘slowbalisation’ (The Economist June 19th 2022,
p.17).

Demography and migration

Demography

In 2021 the world population was 7.87 billion; it is forecast to reach
9.7 billion by the year 2050 and is expected to reach 10.8 billion by
2100. As seen in Table 15.1, the increase in world population comes
from the developing world of Asia, Africa and Latin America. Europe
as a whole will experience a decline in population. The age pyramid in
the industrialized countries of North America, Europe and Japan will
shift towards ageing people. Japan’s population shrunk in 2005 for the
first time and is expected to continue falling. Even China will
experience an ageing population because of its previous one-child
policy combined with an increase in life expectancy. China will match
the present European level of aged population in 2025 (20 per cent),
and by 2050 both Europe and China will have more than 30 per cent
of people over the age of sixty. This will create enormous pressures
on healthcare, social services and pension management.
Table 15.1 World population, 2015 to 2100
Note: * WPP2019 – Percentage of total population by broad age group – both sexes.
Source: United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division (2019),
World Population Prospects 2019, Total Population, Both Sexes – Medium Variant,
https://population.un.org/wpp/Download/Standard/Population/ (accessed 1 February 2022).

  By 2050, half of the world’s population growth is expected to be
concentrated in nine countries: India, Nigeria, Pakistan, Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, United Republic of Tanzania, USA,
Indonesia and Uganda.12
  Populations tend to concentrate more and more in urban areas. In
2021, more than half (56.8 per cent) of the world population lives in
urban areas and the proportion is forecasted to be 68 per cent by
2050, leading to the development of megacities of more than 10
million people: Beijing, Shanghai, Kolkata, Mumbai, Karachi, Dhaka,
Jakarta, Cairo, Lagos, Mexico, São Paulo, Buenos Aires, Tokyo, New
York and Los Angeles.13

Migration

Cross-border migrations, a perennial historical phenomenon, have
taken new dimensions over the past years. This is mainly due to two
phenomena: 1) economic and demographic imbalance, that is, people
from South Saharan Africa moving to Europe; and 2) geopolitical
disruptions in the Middle East (principally, since 2011, the ongoing
Syrian civil war). One may anticipate a third driver of migration
becoming increasingly significant – global warming and the incursion of
ocean waters on coastal areas.
   According to the UN population division ‘The number of international
migrants globally reached an estimated 272 million in 2019, an
increase of 51 million since 2010’14
   Public opinion is divided on the economic and social benefits of
migration. Table 15.2 shows the main arguments.
Table 15.2 Pros and cons of migration


                                 Pros                         Cons
 Host countries                  •       Filling job          •    Pressure on
                                        vacancies                 wages
                                 •       Sustaining           •    Exploitation of
                                        economy                   migrants
                                 •       Servicing ageing     •    Pressure on
                                        population                public services
                                 •       Adding to            •    Friction with
                                        innovation and            local population
                                        cultural diversity    •    Transfer of
                                 •       Re-equilibrate age       diseases
                                        pyramid for ageing    •    Unfair
                                        societies                 distribution of
                                                                  national wealth
                                                              •    Population
                                                                  imbalance
                                                              •    Malpractices
                                                              •    Financial
                                                                  burden
                                                              •    Social friction
 Home countries                  •  Remittances         • Loss of talent
                                 •  Reduced               (brain drain)
                                   unemployment
                                 • Innovation at return
Asymmetric development
The United Nations stated in 2020 that ‘Since the 1990s total global
inequality (inequality across all individuals in the world) declined for the
first time since the 1820s. But while income inequality between
countries declines, income inequality within countries has risen’.15 The
inequality between countries that increased from 1990 to 2000 has
slightly decreased since 2005, mainly due to the emergent ‘middle
classes’ of China and India (Figure 15.2). According to the World
Bank, the number of people living below the poverty level of $1.90 a
day had decreased from 1.9 billion in 1981 (40 per cent) to 1.1 billion
(16.8 per cent) in 2010 and 689 million in 2020 (9.2 per cent).
Globally, the trend is unequal but still towards an overall reduction
(Table 15.3). The decline has been much more significant in East Asia
than in the rest of the world. The income inequality within countries is
continuing to increase. Data reveal that income inequality rose during
1980–2019. In Germany, the UK and France the average disposable
income of the richest 10 per cent increased from around 29 per cent
to 35 per cent in 2019. In the USA the increase went from 35 per cent
to 45 per cent. In China it went from 28 per cent to 41 per cent, in
Brazil from 54 per cent to 59 per cent and in India from 31 per cent to
57 per cent.16
Figure 15.2 The global income gap, ratio of GDP per capita in OECD countries to low-income
countries, 1990–2019
Source: Authors’ own, based on data from World Bank Indicators,
http://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SI.POV. DDAY?end=2012&locations=Z7&start=1990
(accessed 1 February 2022).

Table 15.3 Global and regional inequalities 18




Note: * 2018; ** 2017.
Source: http://iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/povDuplicateWB.aspx (accessed 1 February
2022).

 This unequal development can generate conflicts, social unrest and
may ultimately disrupt global trade and investments.17 The war in
Ukraine and its inflationary impact on food and energy prices is likely
to accentuate these concerns.

Emerging economies

In Chapter 2, the characteristics of emerging countries were
described, as well as their new role in the world. Economic projections
indicate that the GDP, measured in PPP, of the seven largest
emerging market economies (China, India, Brazil, Russia, Indonesia,
Mexico and Turkey) will be around twice that of the group of advanced
economies (USA, Japan, Germany, UK, France, Italy, Canada, Spain,
Australia and South Korea) by 2050. When calculated in market rates
the difference will be 50 per cent higher.19 The impact of this will be
felt in all kinds of industries and services. In industries reliant on low-
skilled labour, de-localization to low-wage countries such as Asia
(Bangladesh, Vietnam) or Africa will continue to force painful
restructuring. Medium-level technology products will also be
challenged by the ever more technologically advanced competitors
emerging from China, Russia and India, forcing established companies
to invest more in innovation. Another challenge raised by emerging
economies is their future impact on resources. China’s per capita
consumption of resources is still far below the world average but its
economic expansionism and population make the overall consumption
very big in absolute terms. Already China is the largest consumer of
steel and the second largest consumer of oil. Due its invasion of
Ukraine in 2022 and the consequent and heavy economic sanctions
imposed by the US, UK, EU, among others, Russia’s role in the global
economy was expected to decreased significantly.

Regional blocs
An alternative to globalization is regionalization. The argument put
forward by Professor Alan Rugman to announce the ‘end of
globalization’20 projects that instead of a free flow of goods, services,
people and capital across the world, regional ‘fortresses’ may emerge
as the dominant form of economic structure. Table 15.4 lists the
various forms of such regional agreements. The most sophisticated
regional organization that goes beyond a pure free-trade agreement is
the European Union. Created after the Second World War by six
European countries with the aim of reinforcing political and economic
cooperation in order to prevent new continental wars, the Union
progressively included more members, to reach twenty-eight as of
2016. The creation of the euro as a single currency that was adopted
by 2016 by nineteen European countries reinforced the integration of
some countries. However, the decision made by Britain to quit the
Union illustrates the complexity of regional integration. Regional blocs
facilitate the movement of goods, money and people between member
states, and therefore are beneficial to global company strategies.
Table 15.4 Regional trade agreements
Sustainable development
In Chapter 4, sustainable development issues were presented: global
warming and climate change, natural resource depletion and waste
disposal in particular were discussed. This chapter will concentrate on
future trends in these areas.

Global warming and energy

It is now well established that climate change is linked to greenhouse
gas (GHG) emissions. According to the United States Environmental
Protection Agency: ‘Continued emissions of greenhouse gases will
lead to further climate changes. Future changes are expected to
include a warmer atmosphere, a warmer and more acidic ocean,
higher sea levels, and larger changes in precipitation patterns’21
(Figure 15.3).




Figure 15.3 Projected changes in temperature according to different projected levels of
greenhouse gas emissions
Note: The lines show projected average changes across a range of climate models from high-
to low-emission scenarios while the vertical bars on the right show likely final ranges in
temperature by the end of the twenty-first century for each of these models.
Source: Modified from FAQ 12.1, Figure 1 (Chapter 12) from Collins et al. (2013).

   The emission of GHGs is linked to the type of future energy
consumption and production (Figure 15.4). By 2030, oil will remain the
dominant source although oil reserves are likely to pass through what
is known as ‘Hubbert’s peak’; the point at which the production of oil
begins to decline as resources are increasingly depleted.
Controversies remain about the exact time that Hubbert’s peak may
be reached.
Figure 15.4 Energy demand and gas emission projections according to two scenarios
Notes: Mtoe = million tonnes of oil equivalent; Gt = gigatonnes; INDC = Intended nationally
determined contributions by countries prior to the 2015 Paris Conference on Climate; 450 =
Energy evolution consistent with the goal of limiting the global increase in temperature to 2°C by
limiting the concentration of GHGs in the atmosphere to around 450 parts per million of CO2.
Source: Reproduced with permission from International Energy Agency (2015) Energy and
Climate Change, p. 37, https://www.iea.org/reports/energy-and-climate-change (accessed 1
February 2022).

   Low-carbon-emission sources of energy such as hydroelectricity,
nuclear and renewables such as solar energy, geothermal and marine
are expected to represent 25 per cent of total energy demand by
2030. Energy consumption is dependent upon the adoption of energy-
saving lifestyles, thermally insulated construction, greener types of
vehicles and farming techniques.22 Some analysts believed the energy
crisis created by the war in Ukraine could accelerate the energy
transition to more sustainable sources, notably in the EU.

Natural resources

Biodiversity

Biodiversity, defined as the diversity of living animal and vegetal
organisms, is expected to decline by 10 per cent from 2010 to 205023
if no major changes in public policies and behaviour are implemented.
Most of the losses will come from land-use management, climate
change, infrastructure    development,     pollution and   urbanization.
Affected areas will be:

•   The number of living terrestrial species
•   Forests
•   Marine fish stocks
•   Water.

Under a ‘business as usual’ scenario, 4.7 billion people are expected
to live in water shortage areas, that is, areas where water demand is
higher than water supply. The affected regions are likely to be in North
and South Africa as well as South and Central Asia.

Extractive resources

Again, given current usage rates, ‘extractive resources (minerals,
fossil fuels, metals and biomass) in 2030 will amount to 100 billion
tons as compared to 72 million in 2015’.24
  For oil and gas the peak of extraction, as mentioned earlier, is likely
to have been reached by this date. For other commodities (such as
rare earth elements), the peak is expected to be reached earlier.

Technological developments
We can expect to see major technological developments in the
following four major areas: biotechnology, materials and
nanotechnology, information technology, and renewable energy. The
Covid-19 pandemic that hit the globe in 2020 has accelerated a
number of these trends.

Biotechnology

Based on a better knowledge of cellular genetic codes (genomics) and
the ability to manipulate genes, biotechnology is likely to develop a
variety of innovations:
•       Genetic profiling based on DNA comparisons can lead to
  applications in diagnostics and security. DNA analysis is already
  used for solving criminal cases but its possibilities extend well
  beyond that.
•    Cloning, even limited to crops and animals without mentioning
  ethically problematic human cloning, finds its application in
  agriculture and animal breeding.
•    Genetically modified organisms are likely to be used further,
  extending to medical and pharmaceutical applications.
•    Biomedical engineering will allow the production of organic or
  artificial tissues or organs which can be used for therapeutic
  purposes.

Materials and nanotechnology

New materials based on the integration of composite substances with
or without electronic sensors will give rise to a new generation of
applications. Some materials will be made at nano scale (1/1,000,000
mm). Examples of applications are:

•   Smart textiles and clothes that can react to weather conditions
•   Buildings or vehicles that can adjust to weather conditions
•   Faster and smarter semiconductors
•    Integrated Microsystems: Systems-on-Chips (SoC) embedding
  electronic and mechanical or optical components (MEMS, Micro-
  Electro-Mechanical Systems)
• Self-assembling materials.

Information technology and big data

The combination of new materials and the increase in computing
power as well as miniaturization and the extension of wireless
communication will enable the development of:
•       Pervasive information technology with computers everywhere,
    including homes, cars, public transport, workplace, streets etc.
•     Embedded information technology will extend its traditional areas
    (computers, mobile phones and other ‘obvious’ electronic devices)
    to become part of all objects used for daily living: domestic
    appliances, lamps, blinds, clothes etc.
•      Context-awareness IT, which is able to use information from the
    environment (location, neighbouring persons or objects, resources
    etc.) to inform the user
•        Networking: most of the progress in this area will be the
    development of a pervasive wireless network
•     Large-scale computing and big data storage linked with algorithms
    to produce the capacity to solve complex problems
•       Web-based education and the development of Massive Open
    Online Courses (MOOCs) will considerably enhance the distribution
    of knowledge and change the format of traditional schools and
    universities.

Robotics and artificial intelligence

•   In industry, robots have taken over an increasing number of tasks,
  improving productivity and displacing low-skilled labour. According
  to the Global Talent Competitiveness Index 2020, the top ten
  countries in terms of robot density in 2019 were Germany, Korea
  Republic, Singapore (joint first) followed by Japan, Sweden,
  Denmark, USA, Italy, Belgium and the Netherlands. Industrial robots
  can potentially go beyond industrial uses to revolutionize surgical
  treatments or drug delivery. Nanobots are likely one day to be used
  inside the human body for improved targeting of treatment. In
  hospitals handling Covid-19, robots have been used to disinfect air
  and surfaces, to answer patients’ questions, to bring them medicine
  or food and to monitor their progress. 25
•    Artificial intelligence linked with large-scale computing is likely to
  replace a large variety of clerical and intellectual work.
•       3D manufacturing allows the production of customized parts.

Quantum computing

•    Quantum mechanics is the basis of quantum computing. It refers to
    the scientific laws that affect the smallest dimensions of nature –
    molecules, atoms and subatomic particles. As a result, new
    physical phenomena arise (superposition, entanglement) which can
    be used for computing.
•  Quantum computers use quantum bits, or qubits, that can be zero,
  one or a mixture of zero and one (superposition) that enables
  extremely quick processing – calculations that are not possible
  using conventional computers are a reality.
•    Quantum algorithms: quantum computers can explore problems
  that are exponential in nature and are best suited to solving
  problems using three types of algorithms: 1) optimization
  Algorithms, 2) sampling algorithms and 3) machine learning
  algorithms.
•   There are multiple possibilities for the use of quantum computers
  and some are already being applied in computer science, cyber
  security, financial services and logistics.

Renewable energy

Beside hydroelectricity, most of the expected progress in this area will
come from:

•      The development or improved harnessing of renewable energy
     sources:
    – Solar energy
    – Biomass or bioenergy
    – Ocean energy
    –     Wind energy
    –     Geothermal energy
  – Hydrogen26
• The utilization of energy-saving measures:
 – Hybrid or electric vehicles
  –   Energy efficient insulated housing
  –   Reduction of energy loss in production systems
  –   Energy-saving illumination and appliances.

Global risks
Online Appendix 15.1 gives a summary of the main global risks, and
Figure 15.5 presents an estimate of the probability of those risks
occurring and their economic, as well as their human life, impact on
the international community over ten years from 2021, identified by a
team from the World Economic Forum.27

Ethnic, religious and cultural friction
An increased search for communal identity – religious, ethnic or
linguistic – is expected to develop alongside, or in reaction to,
globalization. Manifestations of such movements have been
experienced in the Balkans, Chechnya, Mexico, Indonesia, China,
Corsica and Spain. Communities that were living peacefully alongside
each other are increasingly asserting their differences, at times with
extreme violence as was experienced in Rwanda in the mid-1990s,
and with Shiite–Sunni tensions in Iraq, the Lebanon and elsewhere in
the Middle East since the 2000s.
   Huntington has argued forcefully that future conflicts will be primarily
rooted in cultural differences, and will thus occur between different
‘civilizations’.28 The terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001 in the
United States gives some credence to this thesis. In 2014, a radical
Iraqi group took over the city of Mosul and declared a caliphate
named the ‘Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant’ based on Sharia law.
The territory controlled by this group extended to Syria. A series of
terrorist attacks in the Middle East, Europe, Africa and North America
initiated by this organization were committed. Some citizens from
various countries attracted by the religious rhetoric of this ‘state’ joined
the ranks of ‘jihadists’. As a result, in 2017 the Middle East was the
centre of violent ethnic tensions based on religious grounds, which
affected the political and social scenes of many countries. The so-
called ‘Islamic State’ was defeated by an international coalition and
lost its territorial footprint but in 2021 radical ideological terrorist
forces are still active in various part of Africa (Mali, Burkina Faso,
Mozambique).
Table 15.5 Selected global risks 2021


 Low probability of             High probability of     High probability of
 occurrence/ high               occurrence/ high        occurrence/ low
 impact                         impact                  impact
 •  Weapons of                  •    Infectious         • Digital power
   mass destruction                 diseases              concentration
 • IT infrastructure            •    Climate protection • Digital inequality
   failure                          failure             • Interstate
                                •    Biodiversity         relations fractures
                                    losses
                                •    Natural resources
                                    crisis
                                •    Extreme weather
                                •    Human
                                    environmental
                                    damages
                                •    Debts crisis
                                •    Livelihood crisis

Source: Adapted from WEF, Global Risks Report (2021).


Financial crisis
In 1997, four major Southeast and Northeast Asian countries
(Thailand, Indonesia, Korea and to a lesser extent Malaysia) entered
a massive depression due to highly leveraged financing and improper
banking regulations. At approximately the same time, Argentina
entered a period of turmoil due to its inability to service high
government debts, and eventually defaulted in 2001. The situation in
both Asia and Latin America stabilized, but in 2001 in the USA the
highly inflated internet bubble burst, causing world stock exchanges to
depreciate. By the end of 2007, a more pernicious crisis broke: the
subprime crisis that destroyed Lehmann Brothers and threatened the
financial community worldwide. Governments around the world
injected money into their economies in order to avoid the nightmare of
the Great Depression that followed the Wall Street Crash of 1929. By
doing so, government debts increased up to a point where creditors
realized that the Argentine scenario could happen in Greece and affect
the whole of Western Europe. As pointed out in an IMF publication:
‘The economic and financial turmoil engulfing the world marks the first
crisis of the current era of globalization … The drivers of the recent
globalization wave (open markets, the global supply chain, globally
integrated companies, and private ownership) are being undermined,
and the spirit of protectionism has reemerged.’29
   In 2010, in what became known as ‘the Eurozone crisis’, massive
budgetary deficits and high public indebtedness in Greece, Spain,
Ireland and Portugal created tensions within Europe and forced the
governments of these countries to implement budget deficit reductions
that affected consumers and generated social unrest.
   The Covid-19 pandemic in 2020–2022 created another set of global
financial uncertainties. According to the IMF: ‘Extraordinary policy
measures have eased financial conditions and supported the economy,
helping to contain financial stability risks. But actions taken during the
pandemic may have unintended consequences such as stretched
valuations and rising financial vulnerabilities.’30
   Governments have injected masses of cash in order to support their
economies. The following are the possible outcomes of these
injections:
•   Inflation
•   Emerging market bankruptcies due to high interest
•    Rising interest rates and corporate bankruptcies in vulnerable
  sectors
• Possible bank defaults.

Security

Since 11 September 2001, and particularly since the creation of the
Islamic State, worldwide terrorist attacks have meant that security
issues are affecting global transport and the movement of people.
Although conflict with Islamic State has now deescalated, underground
jihadist terrorist networks still exist in Africa and violence continues.
The Uppsala Conflict Data Program (UCDP) notes that violence also
continues in Afghanistan (accouting for 40 per cent of all fatalities from
organized violence worldwide), and recorded fifty-four state-based
conflicts in 2019, including seven wars. This report estimated that
around 76,480 people were killed in organized violence in 2019, with
the total number of deaths from armed conflicts being 2,523,676.31
The first few months of war in Ukraine in 2022 already caused
thousands of casualties.

The globalization of criminal activities

Illicit activities are increasingly crossing borders, ranging across:

•   Human trafficking for sexual exploitation
•   Smuggling of migrants
•   Drugs commerce: primarily cocaine and heroin
•   Trafficking of firearms
•   Trafficking of natural resources
•   Trafficking of human organs
•   Maritime piracy
•   Product counterfeiting, particularly pharmaceuticals
•   Cybercrime
•   Global terrorism
•   Money laundering.

One may possibly add tax evasion to this list. Transnational organized
crime takes advantage of globalization to increase its power.
According to the Executive Director of the United Nations Office on
Drugs and Crime: ‘Organized crime has diversified, gone global and
reached macro-economic proportions.’ The estimated amount of
money laundered globally in one year is 2−5 per cent of the global
GDP, or in the range of $800 billion to $2 trillion.32 Money-laundering
activities cover a wide range of criminal activities such as drug
trafficking, tax evasion, illegal political financing, corruption and all sort
of crimes.

Future scenarios

The technique of scenario building is used to picture potential images
of the future.33 Scenarios are built upon contrasted configurations of
key socioeconomic and political drivers. The configurations are based
on expert opinion. Two to four possible futures are pictured – most
scenarios contain two or three extreme representations and a middle
one, although there is some argument for developing at least four
scenarios in order to avoid the middle of the road choice.34 Appendix
15.2 gives a simplified methodology for elaborating scenarios.
  The main attractiveness of scenario building is that it expands the
range of possible futures beyond pure extrapolation. It obliges
decision makers to uncover the underlying drivers of change. Scenario
building is not without pitfalls, however; the main criticism is that no
scenarios can predict ‘black swans’, or unexpected events such as the
terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001.
  Appendix 15.3 summarizes some alternative scenarios that have
been set out in the following publications: Global Trends 2030,35
published by the US National Security Agency; the State of the Future
reports from the Millennium Project,36 initiated by the United Nations
University; the Global Scenarios to 2025 and the Global Energy
Scenarios to 2050, prepared by Shell Corporation;37 Global
Scenarios Service prepared by Oxford Economics;38 and The World
in 2025 prepared by the European Commission.39
   Other sources of scenarios are given in the References at the end
of this chapter.40


EXAMPLE 15.1 The Millennium Project

The Millennium Project, jointly founded in 1996 by the United Nations
University, the Smithsonian Institution, Futures Group International and
the American Council for the United Nations University, is an
independent non-profit global participatory futures research think tank
of futurists, scholars, business planners and policy makers who work
for international organizations, governments, corporations, NGOs and
universities. Its mission is to focus and collate the most cutting-edge
thinking about the future and to make that thinking publicly available
through a variety of media. Since 1996, about 2,500 futurists,
scholars, decision makers and business planners from more than fifty
countries have contributed their views to The Millennium Project’s
research.
   Every year The Millennium Project publishes its latest report, State
of the Future. Readers can view the most recent at
http://www.millennium-project.org/publications-2-3/#sof19.
Table 15.6 Simplified list of the 15 Global Challenges identified by The Millennium Project


 •    Sustainable development and climate change
 •    Clean water access
 •    Population growth and resources equilibrium

 •    Democracy development in non-democratic societies
 •    Enhanced decision making in an accelerated changing
     environment
 •    Information and communications technologies for everybody
 •    Gap reduction between rich and poor
 •    Reducing threats from diseases
 •    Education as an instrument to address global challenges
 •    Reduction of ethnic conflicts, terrorism and weapons of mass
     destruction
 •    Improvement of women’s status
 •    Stopping organized crime
 •   Accelerating of scientific and technological breakthroughs
 •    Meeting safe and efficient energy demand
 •    Including ethics in global decisions

Sources: Authors’ based on http://www.millennium-project.org/projects/challenges/ (accessed
1 February 2022).




  The same report identified the perceived progress identified as of
2021. Table 15.7 is an adapted version of those perceptions.
Table 15.7 The Millennium Project Global Challenges


 Global challenges                         Positive                  Negative
                                           developments as           developments
                                           of 2021                   as of 2021
 •    Sustainable development
     and climate change
•   Clean water access            •    Improved
                                      water
                                      resources
•    Population growth and        •    Population
    resources equilibrium             growth slowing
•    Democracy development
    in non-democratic societies
•    Enhanced decision making
    in an accelerated changing
    environment
•    Information and              •    Increased
    communications                    internet users
    technologies for everybody
•    Gap reduction between
    rich and poor
•    Reducing threats from        •  Increased
    diseases                        number of
                                    physicians per
                                    capita
                                  • Improved
                                    health
                                    expenditures
                                  • Decreased
                                    child mortality
                                  • Increased life
                                    expectancy
•    Education as an              •     Improved
    instrument to address             literacy
    global challenges
•   Reduction of ethnic                                •   Increased
        conflicts, terrorism and                                           armed
        weapons of mass                                                    conflicts
        destruction
    •    Improvement of women’s
        status
    •    Stopping organized crime
    •    Accelerating of scientific
        and technological
        breakthroughs
    •    Meeting safe and efficient        •  Increased
        energy demand                        renewable
                                             energy
                                           • Improved
                                             energy
                                             efficiency
    •    Including ethics in global                                    •    Increased
        decisions                                                          level of
                                                                           corruption

Source: Authors’ adapted from http://www.millennium-project.org/projects/challenges/
(accessed 1 February 2022).

  In 2020, The Millennium Project was asked by the American Red
Cross to create Covid-19 scenarios until January 2022:

•   Scenario 1: America Endures (baseline, mix of good and bad
  developments)
•    Scenario 2: Depression, Hubris and Discord (plausible worse
  case)
• Scenario 3: Things go Right! (plausible best case)

Further     details   are             available        at      http://www.millennium-
project.org/covid-19/
EXAMPLE 15.2 The ‘Future Possibilities Report’

The UAE Government and the United Nations published the ‘Future
Possibilities Report 2020’ which analyses six transformational trends
for future economic growth and societal wellbeing. The six
transformational trends are:

1   Exabyte Economy
   Exabyte Economy focuses on the development of big data
possibilities with computing power and storage becoming affordable
and more efficient, and the roll out of 5G technology. The resulting
flow of data will lead to improvement of artificial intelligence-based
systems capacities to optimize processes and services that can
disrupt business models across a range of sectors. This trend leads to
an estimated total economic value of up to $8 trillion by 2025.
2   Circular Economy
    Circular Economy focuses on an increasing public awareness in
reducing the impact on the environment. It will continue to open up
new possibilities for optimizing resource usage and reducing waste.
This is estimated to bring new market possibilities totaling up to $4.5
trillion.
3   Wellbeing Economy
   Wellbeing Economy presents opportunities emerging from an
increased interest in physical and mental wellbeing as a result of
adopting new approaches to wellbeing at individual, organizational and
community levels. The combined value of wellbeing possibilities could
reach $7 trillion within a few years.
4   Experience Economy
  The fourth trend examines societies’ interest in providing
personalized experience services that are tailored to the needs of
customers within Experience Economy: From Ownership to Usership.
New trends could build an experience-driven economy worth up to
$6.5 trillion by 2025, due to customers’ desire to ‘experience’ rather
than to consume.
5    Net Zero Economy
   Net Zero Economy explores the general increase in energy demand
and global efforts to reduce carbon emissions. This requires
promoting the innovation of technologies and developing adaptable
investment models and new markets. According to the report, it is
expected that growing demand for renewable energy could yield over
$2.3 trillion of possibilities by 2025.
6    Bio Growth Economy
  Bio Growth Economy: New Agriculture and Biomaterials promotes
new possibilities for various sectors worldwide relating to agriculture
and emerging biological materials that could be worth over $1 trillion
by 2025.
Source: Future Possibilites Report 2020,
https://www.un.org/sites/un2.un.org/files/20200720_un75_uae_futurepossibilitiesreport.pdf
(accessed 1 February 2022).




The future of global corporations
Academic and consulting research on the future roles, capabilities and
organization of global firms is all based on the fundamental assumption
that globalization is progressing and that global firms are the main
vectors of that ‘progress’. The main focus of organizational and
strategic thinkers should be to imagine and craft the organization of
the future in more innovative or ‘revolutionary’ ways41 in order to lead,
and adapt to, the changes brought by global competition. We can
identify two major models or ‘blueprints’ for the future global firm: the
individualized corporation model and the metanational model.
The individualized corporation

‘The individualized corporation’ is a term suggested by Ghoshal and
Bartlett.42 Based on the example of some leading global firms such as
Canon, ABB or 3M, the authors argue that the future organizational
form is best described by a portfolio of three key processes,
embodied into a new organizational model in which new management
competencies and roles are redefined:

1  The new organizational model is based on a network of
  relationships as opposed to the traditional hierarchical structure
  (Figure 15.5).
2 The key processes are:
    • The renewal process: developing a culture of moving away from
    incremental improvement to a culture of overall performance that
    combines both long-term and short-term achievements.
  •   The integration process: moving away from isolated dispersed
    competencies into a culture of linking these distributed
    competencies to build broad capabilities supported by
    cooperation and trust among units. The integration process is
    based on networking across units. The entrepreneurial process:
    moving away from an organizational model based on holding
    managers responsible, authoritarian and top-down control. This
    approach focuses on upward initiative coming from the
    commitment of front-line entrepreneurship supported by middle-
    level and top management.
3 The new management roles are described in Table 15.8.
Figure 15.5 A new organizational model
Source: Authors’ based on Ghoshal and Bartlett (1997).

Table 15.8 Management of new roles for the individualized corporaton


 Managers and                Roles                            Competencies
 leaders
 Front-line                  Creation           of            Technical
 entrepreneurs               opportunities                    Curiosity
                             Managing resources               Environment scanner
                             Engaging customers               Communicator
                             Performance                      People motivator
                             achievers
 Senior Managers             Support              of Ability to delegate
                             entrepreneurs           Ability to build teams
                             Resources facilitators Ability to negotiate
                                                     resources
 Top Executives              Organizational                   Ability    to   assess,
                             designer                         select, inspire people
                             Inspirational strategist         Ability to connect with
                             Organizational                   key stakeholders
                             challenger                       Ability to understand
                                                              global trends       and
                                                              opportunities
Source: Authors’ own adaptation of Ghoshal and Bartlett (1994).


The metanational corporation

The metanational corporation was mentioned in Chapter 11. This form
of global organization, as proposed by Doz, dos Santos and
Williamson,43 is based on the assumption that in a globalized world
competitive advantage is obtained at three levels:

•  The ability to identify and access new competencies and innovative
  technologies and lead market knowledge.
•    The speed and the effectiveness with which companies can
  connect scattered pieces of knowledge and use them to create
  innovative products and services.
•     The ability to optimize the efficiency of global sales, distribution,
    marketing and supply chains to leverage those products, services
    and process innovations across global markets rapidly and cost
    effectively.

   The traditional global firms were ‘projectors’, meaning that the
source of their competitive advantage was to be found in their home
countries, and their globalization was to project those advantages
internationally. The metanational corporation is a ‘prospector’, meaning
that the source of their competitive advantage is to be able to
prospect, tap and leverage knowledge scattered across the world in a
speedy and efficient manner. Although Doz and his colleagues did not
identify any fully fledged companies that corresponded to the
characteristics of their model, they found that companies such as
Nokia, the Finnish leader in mobile phones, or ST Microelectronics, a
European microprocessor firm, were examples of metanationals in the
making. The metanational firm has a dispersed internal and external
network of design, production and customer relationship centres, each
of which contributes to knowledge creation and leverage. The concept
of a ‘centre’ or ‘home headquarters’ disappears in this type of
organization – it is a pure global firm within a global world.
   Both models are based on the form of a networked organization
that implies the coordinated combined effort of ‘unbundled’ business
units,44 some of them being ‘internal’ to a corporation (subsidiaries),
some external (partners, suppliers, distributors), and some in between
(joint ventures, strategic alliances). The concept of the networked
organization is not new but it gained momentum during the 1980s and
1990s because of the restructuring of firms, the forming of global
strategic alliances and the development of IT.




  MINI-CASE 15.1

  Threat of a pandemic

  The pandemic threat

  Following the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak, which did not affect
  his territory, the Minister of Health of Pulau Vicente, a fictional
  South Pacific island, was concerned about future possible
  pandemic of flu carried by wild animals reaching his island.
     He asked a group of health and economic experts to form a
  team in order to evaluate the potential economic and social
  consequences of a pandemic affecting the island under various
  contrasting scenarios.
     The team gathered first in order to establish a plan of action.
  They determined that their study would be divided into four
  phases:

  1   List the elements to be assessed in order to build a scenario:
      a    The impacted issues: what the minister wants to assess in
          terms of economic and social consequences, and a
          definition of a measurable variable of those issues
          (dependent variables).
   b       The most important driving forces either external or
      internal, direct or indirect that can possibly influence the
      selected issues in the future (independent or intermediate
      variables).
2 For each driving force, select its possible state of affairs
  (variables): either the variable is a number (for example,
  growth rate) or the variable is expressed as a range (high to
  low, frequent to infrequent). In both cases, no more than three
  discrete values for each variable would be assigned (the two
  extremes plus a middle value). The team planned to use a kind
  of Delphi technique (asking a group of experts to hypothesize
  on a given situation interactively and qualitatively).
3 Build a model in which the relationship between variables is
  represented and calculate the potential outcome of how the
  variables could affect one another for all value combinations.
4 Analyse each of the projected outcomes and reduce it to a
  small number of plausible and contrasted stories under the
  form of ‘scenarios’. This is considered the most creative part
     Having adopted this methodology the team financed a
   series of research studies in order to collect data. Below are
   the results of their data collection:
   a      According to the health authorities, the anticipated flu
      could affect the population with various intensities.
      Assuming that the virus could be transmitted to humans it
      was deemed probable that one-tenth of the population
      could develop the flu, up to a projected maximum of one-
      third.
   b     Some experts say that there is no vaccine available but
      others think that a vaccine could be developed with an
      efficacy of 30 per cent to 70 per cent.
   c     The infected population, if not vaccinated or with failed
      vaccination, could receive a classic treatment to develop
      self-defence mechanisms (antibodies) but unfortunately
      around 2–3 per cent would die.
    d     Statistical data are shown in Table 15.9. of the exercise,
        where two or three alternative futures have to be extracted
        from the data and described within a narrative.
Table 15.9 Data relating to Pulau Vicente


 Population (million)                                       27
 Working population                                         40%
 GDP (US$ billion)                                          195
 Total hours worked/year                                    2,500
 Total hours worked/week                                    48

 GDP per employee (US$)                                     18,000
 GDP per worked hour (US$)                                  7.2
 Cost of vaccination per person (US$)                       100
 Cost of classical treatment per person (US$)               400
 Death rate for non-vaccinated population                   2%

Question:

Using the methodology of scenario building described in Appendix
15.1 can you describe the possible scenarios that illustrate the
impact of a pandemic outbreak?

Summary and key points
1    The significant challenges to globalization include:
    a     Globalization called into question:
         •   Zealot point of view:
    –       Globalization will drive networked global
        companies
    –    Globalized economy will increase political stability
        but reach and benefits will not be universal
     –     Globalization process will evolve with financial
        volatility and a widening economic divide
     –       Potential brakes on global economy include
        sustained financial crisis or prolonged disruption of
        energy supplies
     – Regions, countries and groups feel left behind and
        will face deepening economic stagnation, political,
        ethnic, ideological and religious extremism
     –     Developed countries will be forced to focus on
        ‘old-world’ challenges while concentrating on the
        implications of ‘new-world’ technologies
•   Dissenting point of view:
    –     Reduced trade barriers and investment increases
        asymmetry between groups that can cross
        international borders and groups that cannot
    –         Globalization stimulates conflicts within and
        between nations over domestic norms and social
        institutions embodying them
    –      Globalization makes it increasingly difficult for
        governments to provide social insurance
    –     How to ease tension between globalization and
        pressures for socialization to minimize the
        possibility of a generalized resurgence of
        protectionism
•   Radical point of view:
    –    Re-embedding the economy in society instead of
        having society driven by the economy
    –    Obtain financial resources for development from
        within instead of foreign investment
           –        Implement measures of income and land
               redistribution
           –   De-emphasize growth and maximize equity
           –    Make strategic economic decisions subject to
             democratic choice
          –      Subject private sector and state to constant
             monitoring by civil society
          –    Create a new production/exchange complex that
             includes     community      cooperatives, private
             enterprises and state enterprises but excludes
             TNCs
          – Encourage production of goods at community/sub-
             national level
b       Demography and migrations:
    • Increase in world population will come from developing
    world
  • Age pyramid in industrialized countries will shift towards
    ageing people, increasing pressures on healthcare,
    social services and pension management
  •        Increase in cross-border migration and intense
    urbanization will create megacities of more than 10
    million people
c   Asymmetric development – the unequal development of
  people living below a certain poverty level will generate
  conflicts and ultimately disrupt global trade and investment
d Emerging economies
    •  The output of the seven largest emerging market
    economies will be around twice that of the group of
    advanced economies by 2050
  • Will affect low-tech and high-tech production
e Regional blocs:
        •    As an alternative to globalization, regional blocs
          emerging as the dominant form of economic structure
        •  Examples include EU, MERCOSUR, NAFTA, ASEAN,
          APEC, MAU, SADC
    f   Sustainable development issues will become mainstream
      issues in the developed world
       • Main future concerns are:
           – Global warming and energy
           – Depletion of natural resources: biodiversity, water
               supply, extractive resources
           –        Technological developments: biotechnology,
               materials and nanotechnologies, information
               technology and big data, renewable energies,
               robotics and artificial intelligence, renewable
               energies
    g Ethnic, religious and cultural friction
        •    Increased search for community identity (religious,
         ethnic, linguistic) which will come into conflict with
         globalization, as evidenced in the Middle East and Africa
    h Financial crisis: prospect of a new global financial crisis is
      not insignificant
    i Security: terrorism increasing
    j  Global criminal activities – increasingly cross-border, e.g.
      drug trafficking, piracy, cybercrime
2   Global risks
      Affect the environment, the economy, the geopolitical
      stability, the societal well-being and technological
      adversities
3   Scenarios
    a     Scenario building is used to picture potential images of
        the future
    b   Scenarios are built upon contrasted configurations of key
      socioeconomic and political drivers
    c   There are many publications that set out possible future
      scenarios
    d   The Millennium Project from the United Nations is built
      around 15 Global Challenges
4     Emerging theories of global management with two major
    company models:
    a    Individualized corporation with a portfolio of three key
      processes by which new management competencies and
      roles are defined:
       •    Key processes are the entrepreneurial process, the
         integration process and the renewal process
       •    The new organizational model is based on a network
         relationship instead of the traditional hierarchical
         structure
       •       The new management roles are the operating-
         entrepreneurial role of front-line managers, the
         management-developer of senior and middle-level
         managers and the top-level institutional builder of top
         leaders
    b Metanational
        •     The networked organization implies the coordinated
          combined effort of ‘unbundled’ business units, some
          ‘internal’ to a corporation (e.g. subsidiaries), some
          ‘external’ to a corporation (e.g. partners, suppliers,
          distributors), and some in between (e.g. joint ventures,
          strategic alliances)
        •      Assumes competitive advantage obtained at three
          levels:
             –     Ability to identify and access new competencies,
                 innovative technologies and lead market knowledge
           –     Speed and effectiveness with which companies
               can connect scattered pieces of knowledge and
               use them to create innovative products and
               services
           –     Ability to optimize the efficiency of global sales,
               distribution, marketing and supply chains to
               leverage those products, services and processes
               innovations across global markets rapidly and cost-
               effectively

Learning assignments
1   Why is globalization increasingly being called into question?
2   Does globalization increase the income gap?
3  What are the consequences for the global economy of the
  global economic/political power of China?
4 How will the ‘global warming issue’ affect the global
  economy?
5    Assuming that you are a global company producing
    cosmetics, what are the variables you would take into
    consideration to build a ten-year scenario for China?

Key words
•   Asymmetric development
•   Cybercrime
•   Deglobalization
•   Global warming
•   Individualized corporation
•   Megacities
•   Metanational
    •   Regionalization
    •   Scenarios

    Web resources
    Institute for the Future (IFTF):
    https://www.iftf.org/en/our-work/featured-projects/
    Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change:
    https://www.ipcc.ch
    The Millennium Project:
    http://www.millennium-project.org/publications-2/
    World Economic Forum, Reports:
    https://www.weforum.org/reports
    National Intelligence Council:
    https://www.dni.gov/index.php/global-trends-home



    Companion website

    Visit bloomsbury.pub/global-strategic-management-5e for a
    multitude of weblinks and resources, self-test questions for
    revision and appendices.


Notes
1  Fukuyama (1989, 1992).
2  Stiglitz (2002).
3  Ansoff (1975: 3): In an article published in 1975 Professor Igor Ansoff define weak signals in
  the context of strategic planning as ‘early in the life of a threat, when the information is vague
  and its future course unclear’..
4 Taleb (2007). Nassim Taled described black swans as ‘highly improbable events’.
5    The term ‘global challenge’ is used in the United Nations University’s The Millennium
  Projects report, published every year since 1997. The most recent edition at the time of
  writing is J. Glenn, E. Florescu and The Millennium Project Team (2015) 2015–16: State of
  the Future (Washington, DC: American Council for the United Nations University). Most of
   the challenges discussed in this chapter are also part of the 15 Global Challenges of The
   Millennium Project.
6 NIC (2000: 20).
7 Rodrik (1997).
8 Bello (2000).
9 Fukuyama (2014).
10 Tertrais (2015: 7–18).
11 Witt (2019).
12 United Nations (2019): https://population.un.org/wpp/Download/Standard/Population/.
13 NIC (2000).
14 United Nations (2019), https://www.un.org/de v e l o p m e n t /d e s a /e n / n e w s / p o p u
   l a t i o n / international-migrant-stock-2019.html (accessed 11 May 2022).
15 United Nations (2020) https://www.un.org/en/un75/inequality-bridging-divide.
16 World Inequality database, https://wid.world/world.https://wid.world/ Accessed on January
   29, 2022.
17 Piketti (2014); Stiglitz (2012, 2015).
18 World Bank: http://iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/povDuplicateWB.aspx (Accessed 21
   February 2022).
19         PwC (2015). https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/research-insights/economy/the-world-in-
   2050.html (accessed 21 February 2021).
20 Rugman (2000).
21 EPA (2016).
22 IPPC (2012: 20).
23 OECD (2012).
24 OECD (2015b: 9).
25 ht t p s:// h o s p i t a li t y i n s i g hts.e h l.e d u /ro b ots -during-covid-19#:~:text=In%20
   hospitals&- te x t = A % 2 0 s a fe % 2 0 a l te r n a t i v e % 2 0 i s % 2 0
   to,Robots%20to%20disinfect%20patients’%20 rooms (accessed 1 February 2022).
26 There has been an increase recently in hydrogen as a potential revolutionary alternative for
   fossil fuels. For further information see https://www.ft.com/content/7eac54ee-f1d1-4ebc-
   9573-b52f87d00240?shareType=nongift (accessed 1 February 2022).
27 World Economic Forum (2021).
28 Huntington (1997). His original article, ‘The clash of civilizations?’ (Foreign Affairs, Summer
   1993: 22–49), sparked a fierce debate about a new ‘civilization paradigm’, replacing the
   former demarcation of the First, Second and Third Worlds. (See Foreign Affairs,
   September–October 1993: 2–26, and Huntington’s response, Foreign Affairs, November–
   December 1993: 186–94).
29 Pisani-Ferry and Santos (2009).
30 IMF (2021), https://www.imf.org/en/Publications/GFSR/Issues/2021/10/12/global-financial-
   stability-report-october-2021 (Accessed on January 29, 2022).
31 https://ucdp.uu.se (accessed 1 February 2022).
32     https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/ Deloitte/ in/Documents/finance/Forensic/in-fo-
   rensic-AML-Survey-report-2020-noexp.pdf (accessed 1 February 2022).
33 Wack (1985).
34 Roxburg (2009), pp. 1–9.
35 NIC (2012).
36 Glenn, Florescu and The Millennium Project (2016).
37 Shell (2005, 2008).
38 Oxford Economics (2011).
39 European Commission (2009).
40 On scenarios one may consult: Enriquez et al. (2015); PwC (2015); Attali (2006).
41 Hamel (2000). The author is not centred on the issues of globalization, but the book
   implicitly assumes that corporations will become more and more globalized.
42 Ghoshal and Bartlett (1997).
43 Doz et al. (2002).
44 Hagel and Singer (1999).


References and further reading
Acemoglu, D. (2021) ‘Remaking the Post-Covid World’, IMF: Finance and Development.
   https://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/fandd/2021/03/pdf/COVID-inequality-and-automation-
   acemoglu.pdf (accessed 1 February 2022).
Ansoff, H. I. (1975) ‘Managing strategic surprise by response to weak signals’, California
   Management Review, XVIII (2).
Aslam, A. (2005) ‘Planet faces nightmare forecasts as Chinese consumption grows and
   grows’, One World News, 10 March.
Attali, J. (2006) Une Brêve Histoire de l’Avenir (Paris: Fayard).
Bello, W. (2000) ‘The struggle for a deglobalized world’, Focus on the Global South, September.
   http://www.corpwatch.org/article.php?id=322 (accessed 4 July 2017).
Beneviste, G. (1994) The Twenty-First Century Organization: Analyzing Current Trends –
   Imagining the Future (San Francisco: Jossey-Bass). (Presents two scenarios of the
   organization in the twenty-first century.)
Brown, L. R. (2005) Learning from China: Why the Western Economic Model Will Not Work for
   the World, March, Earth Policy Institute. http://www.earth-
   policy.org/plan_b_updates/2005/update46 (accessed 4 July 2017).
Collins, M., Knutti, R., Arblaster, J., Dufresne, J.-L., Fichefet, T., Friedlingstein, P., Gao, X.,
   Gutowski, W. J., Johns, T., Krinner, G., Shongwe, M., Tebaldi, C., Weaver, A. J. and Wehner,
   M. (2013) ‘Long-term climate change: projections, commitments and irre-versibility’, in T. F.
   Stocker, D. Qin, G.-K. Plattner, M. Tignor, S. K. Allen, J. Boschung, A. Nauels, Y. Xia, V. Bex
   and P. M. Midgley (eds), Climate Change 2013: The Physical Science Basis. Contribution of
   Working Group I to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
   Change, 1029–136 (Cambridge and New York, NY: Cambridge University Press). doi:
   10.1017/ CBO9781107415324.024.
Daugherty, P. R. and Wilson, H. (2018) ‘Human + Machine: reimagining work in the age of AI’,
   Harvard Business Review Press.
Deloitte (2020) Planning scenarios for resilient leaders: The world remade by COVID-19.
   https://www2.deloitte.com/hr/en/pages/about-deloitte/articles/covid-19-svijet-preobrazen-
   pandemijom-ko-ronavirusa.html (accessed 1 February 2022).
Devlin, C., Bolt, O., Patel, D. and Harding, D. (2014) ‘Impacts of migration on UK native
   employment: an analytical review of the evidence’, Home Office/ Department for Business
   Innovation and Skills, March, Occasional Paper 109.
   https://www.gov.uk/government/publications (accessed 4 July 2017).
Doremus, P. N., Keller, W. W., Pauly, L. W. and Reich, S. (1998) The Myth of the Global
   Corporation (Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press).
Doz, Y. L., Dos Santos, J. and Williamson, P. (2002) From Global to Metanational: How
   Companies Win in the Knowledge Economy (Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press).
Enrique, L., Smith, S. and Ablett, J. (2015) Setting Tides: Global Economics Scenarios for
   2015–2025, McKinsey Company, Strategy, September. https://www.mckinsey.com/business-
   functions/strategy-and-corporate-finance/our-insights/shifting-tides-global-economic-
   scenarios-for-2015-25 (accessed 28 January 2022).
EPA (United States Environmental Protection Agency) (2016) Future of Climate Change.
   https://19januar-y2017snapshot.epa.gov/climate-change-science/future-climate-
   change_.html (accessed 7 July 2017).
European Commission (2009) The World in 2025 (Brussels: European Commission).
   https://ec.europa.eu/research/social-sciences/pdf/policy_reviews/the-world-in-2025-
   report_en.pdf (accessed 4 July 2017).
Friedman, T. L. (1999) The Lexus and the Olive Tree: Understanding Globalization (New York,
   NY: Farrar, Strauss & Giroux).
Fukuyama, F. (1989) ‘The end of history’, The National Interest (Summer).
Fukuyama, F. (1992) The End of History and the Last Man (New York, NY: Free Press).
Fukuyama, F. (2014) ‘At the end of history still stands democracy’, Wall Street Journal, 6 June.
Gaub, F. (2021) Conflicts to Come, 15 Scenarios for 2030, European Union Institute for Security
   Studies. https://op.europa.eu/en/publication-detail/-/publication/84515f4e-5ebc-11eb-b487-
   01aa75ed71a1/language-en/format-PDF/source-207681264 (accessed 1 February 2022).
Ghoshal, S. and Bartlett, C. A. (1997) The Individualized Corporation: A Fundamental Approach
   to Management (New York, NY: HarperCollins).
Glenn, J. C. and The Millennium Project Team (2019) Work/Technology 2050 Scenarios and
   Action.
http://www.millennium-project.org/projects/workshops-on-future-of-worktechnology-2050-
   scenarios/ (accessed 10 April 2021).
Guillen, M. (2020) 2030: How Today’s Biggest Trends Will Collide and Reshape the Future of
   Everything (New York, NY: St Martin’s Press).
Hagel III, J. and Singer, M. (1999) ‘Unbundling the corporation’, Harvard Business Review, 77
   (2): 133–44.
Hamel, G. (2000) Leading the Revolution (Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press).
Hammond, A. (1998) Which World? Scenarios for the 21st Century (Washington, DC: Island
   Press, Shearwater Books).
Harari, Y. (2018), 21 Lessons for the 21st Century (London: Jonathan Cape/Penguin Random
   House).
Harvey, M., Novicevic, M. and Kiessling, T. (2001) ‘Hypercompetition and the future of global
   management in the twenty first century’, Thunderbird International Business Review, 43 (5):
   599–616.
Heilbroner, R. (1993) 21st Century Capitalism (New York, NY: W.W. Norton). (Presents five
   scenarios of capitalism in the twenty-first century.)
Huntington, S. P. (1997) The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of the World Order
   (London: Simon & Schuster).
IBM (n.d.) ‘What is quantum computing?’ https://www.ibm.com/quantum-computing/what-is-
   quantum-computing/ (accessed 8 May 2021).
IBRD (International Bank for Reconstruction and Development) (2007) Global Economic
   Prospects, Managing the New Wave of Globalization (Washington, DC: The World Bank).
IBRD (International Bank for Reconstruction and Development) (2021) World Development
   Report 2021: Data for Better Lives (Washington, DC: The World Bank).
   https://www.worldbank.org/en/publication/wdr202 (accessed 1 February 2022).
IFTF (Institute for the Future) (2020) Future Forces Disrupting Sustainable Business.
   https://www.iftf.org/fileadmin/user_upload/images/ourwork/Sustainability/IFTF_GEMI_FutureF
   orces_Report_2020.pdf (accessed 20 April 2021).
International Energy Agency (2015) Energy and Climate Change. World Energy Special Report
   (Paris, France). https://www.iea.org/reports/energy-and-climate-change (accessed 1
   February 2022).
IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) (n.d.) Global Warming of 1.5°C.
   https://www.ipcc.ch/sr15/ (accessed 20 April 2021).
IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) (2012) Renewable Energy Sources and
  Climate Change Mitigation: Special Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
  Change Renewable Energy Sources and Climate Change, Intergovernmental Panel on
  Climate Change. https://www.ipcc.ch/pdf/special-reports/srren/SRREN_FD_SPM_final.pdf
  (accessed 9 July 2017).
IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) (2013) Climate Change 2013, The
  Physical Science Basis: Frequently Asked Questions.
  http://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar5/wg1/docs/WG1AR5_FAQbrochure_FINAL.pdf (accessed 5 July
  2017).
Kai-Fu, L. (2019) AI Superpowers: China, Silicon Valley and the New World Order (Boston, MA,
  and New York, NY: Houghton Mifflin Harcourt).
King, S. D. (2017) Grave New World: The End of Globalization, the Return of History (New
  Haven, CT: Yale University Press).
Loungani, P. (2021) The Guru of Globalization, IMF Finance and Development.
  https://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/fandd/2021/03/profile-of-economist-assaf-razin-telaviv-
  university.htm (accessed 1 February 2022).
Luebkeman, C. (2019) 2050 Scenarios: Four Plausible Futures (London: Arup).
  https://www.arup.com/perspectives/publications/research/section/2050-scenarios-four-
  plausible-futures (accessed 1 February 2022).
Melander, E. (2016) Organized Violence in the World 2015: An Assessment by the Uppsala
  Conflict Data Program, Uppsala University. http://www.pcr.uu.se/digitalAssets/61/c_61335-
  l_1-k_ucdp-paper-9.pdf (accessed 7 July 2017).
Mitroff, I. I. (1997) Business Not as Usual: Rethinking Our Individual, Corporate, and Industrial
  Strategies for Global Competition (San Francisco, CA:
Jossey-Bass). (Presents four scenarios of US development into the twenty-first century.)
NIC (National Intelligence Council) (2000) Global Trends 2015: A Dialogue about the Future with
  Nongovernment Experts, December.
  https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/docs/DOC_0000516933.pdf (accessed 5 July 2017).
NIC (National Intelligence Council) (2008) Global Trends 2025: A Transformed World.
  https://www.files.ethz.ch/isn/94769/2008_11_Global_Trends_2025.pdf (accessed 5 July
  2017).
NIC (National Intelligence Council) (2012) Global Trends 2030: Alternative Worlds.
  https://globaltrends2030.files.wordpress.com/2012/11/global-trends-2030-november2012.pdf
  (accessed 7 July 2017).
NIC (National Intelligence Council) (2021) Global Trends 2040: A More Contested World.
  https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/GlobalTrends_2040.pdf (accessed
  1 February 2022).
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (2001) Policies to Enhance
  Sustainable Development (Paris: OECD).
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (2012) Environmental
  Outlook to 2050 (Paris: OECD).
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (2015a) Income Inequality:
  The Gap between Rich and Poor, OECD Insights, December.
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) (2015b) Material
  Resources, Productivity and the Environment. http://www.oecd.org/env/waste/material-
  resources-productivity-and-the-environment-9789264190504-en.htm (accessed 9 July 2017).
OECD, IMF, World Bank, UN (2000) A Better World for All (Paris: OECD).
Oxford Economics (2011) Global Scenarios Service (Oxford Economics).
Piketti, T. (2014) Capital in the Twenty-First Century (Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press/Harvard
  University Press).
Piketti, T. (2020) Capital and Ideology (Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press/Harvard University
  Press).
Pisani-Ferry, J. and Santos, I. (2009) ‘Reshaping the global economy’, Finance & Development,
  A Quarterly Publication of the IMF, 46 (1), March.
PwC (2015) The World in 2050, Will the Shift in Global Economic Power Continue?.
  www.pwc.co.uk/economics (accessed 4 July 2017).
Raleigh, C., Jordan, L. and Salehyan, I. (2014) Assessing the Impact of Climate Change on
  Migration and Conflict (Washington, DC: The World Bank).
Rodrik, D. (1997) Has Globalization Gone Too Far? (Washington, DC: Peterson Institute for
  International Economics).
Roldan, C., Brauer, D. and Rohbeck, J. (eds) (2018) Philosophy of globalization (Boston, MA:
  Walter de Gruyter).
  https://library.oapen.org/bitstream/handle/20.500.12657/29566/1000366.pdf?
  sequence=1&isAllowed=y (accessed 1 February 2022).
Roxburg, C. (2009) ‘The use and abuse of scenarios’, McKinsey Quarterly, November.
Ruane, J., McAfee, A. and Oliver, W. (2022) ‘Quantum computing for business
  leaders’, Harvard Business Review, 100 (1): 112–21.
Rugman, A. (2000) The End of Globalization: A New and Radical Analysis of Globalization and
  What it Means for Business (London: Random House).
Saari, D. J. (1999) Global Corporations and Sovereign Nations: Collision or Cooperation?
  (Westport, CT: Quorum Books).
Schoemaker, P. (1995) ‘Scenario planning: a tool for strategic thinking’, Sloan Management
  Review, 36 (2), Winter.
Schopfer, T. and Sajadi, R. E. (2021) ‘The clever use of robots during COVID-19’, EHL Insights,
  Ecole Hotelière de Lausanne. https://hospitalityinsights.ehl.edu/robots-during-covid-
  19#:~:text=In%20hospitals&text=A%20safe%20alternative%20is%20to,Robots%20to%20disi
  nfect%20patients’% (accessed 1 February 2022).
Sheffield, C., Marceto, A. and Kaplan, M. A. (eds) (1994) The World of 2044 – Technological
  Development and the Future of Society (St Paul,
MN: Paragon House). (A global economy scenario to the year 2044.)
Shell (2005) Global Scenarios to 2025 (London: Shell). http://www.shell.com (accessed 4 July
  2017).
Shell (2008) Global Energy Scenarios to 2050 (London: Shell). http://www.shell.com (accessed
  4 July 2017).
Stiglitz, J. E. (2002) Globalization and its Discontents (New York, NY: W.W. Norton & Company,
  National Intelligence Council).
Stiglitz, J. E. (2012) The Price of Inequality: How Today’s Divided Society Endangers Our
  Future (New York, NY: W.W. Norton & Company).
Stiglitz, J. E. (2015) The Great Divide: Unequal Societies and What We Can Do About Them
  (New York, NY: W.W. Norton & Company).
Taleb, N. N. (2007) The Black Swan: The Impact of the Highly Improbable (London: Allen Lane).
Tertrais, B. (2015) ‘The revenge of history’, The Washington Quarterly, 38 (4): 7–18.
Thomas, N., Sheppard, D. and Hume, N. (2021) ‘The race to scale up green hydrogen’,
  Financial Times, 8 March.
Tonby, O., et al. (2019) Future of Asia, McKinsey Global Institute Discussion Paper.
  https://www.mckinsey.com/kz/sitecore/content/mckinsey/home/featured-insights/future-of-
  asia (accessed 1 February 2022).
UNEP (1999) Global Environment Outlook (Cary, NC: Oxford University Press).
United Arab Emirates & United Nations (2020) Future Possibilities Report 2020.
  https://www.un.org/sites/un2.un.org/files/20200720_un75_uae_futurepossibilitiesreport.pdf
  (accessed 1 February 2022).
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (2011) The Global Social Crisis.
  Report on the World Social Situation (New York, NY: United Nations).
  http://www.un.org/esa/socdev/rwss/docs/2011/overview.pdf (accessed 7 July 2017).
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (2015) World Population Prospects,
  2015 Revision: Key Findings and Advance Tables (New York, NY: United Nations).
  https://esa.un.org/unpd/wpp/publications/files/key_findings_wpp_2015.pdf (accessed 5 July
  2017).
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (2019) World Population Prospects,
  Population Division (New York, NY: United Nations).
  https://population.un.org/wpp/Download/Standard/Population/ (accessed 10 April 2021).
UNODC (United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime) (2010) The Threat of Transnational
  Organized Crime (New York, NY: UNODC).
UNODC (United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime) (2016) Organized Crime.
  https://www.unodc.org/unodc/en/organized-crime/index.html (accessed 7 July 2017).
Wack, P. (1985) ‘Scenarios: shooting the rapids’, Harvard Business Review, 63 (6): 139–49.
White, J. (ed.) (1992) Global Climate Change: Linking Energy, Environment, Economy, and
  Equity (New York, NY: Plenum Press). (Energy scenarios to the twenty-first century.)
Witt, M. A. (2019) ‘De-globalization: Theories, predictions, and opportunities for international
  business research’, Journal of International Business Studies 50: 1053–77.
Woetzel, J., et al. (2020) Climate Risk and Response, McKinsey Global Institute.
  https://www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/sustainability/our-insights/climate-risk-and-
  response-physical-hazards-and-socioeconomic-impacts (accessed 1 February 2022).
World Bank (2015a) Ending Extreme Poverty and Sharing Prosperity: Progress and Policies
  (Washington, DC: World Bank).
  https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/bitstream/handle/10986/23604/Ending0extreme0rogres
  s0and0policies.
pdf?sequence=1&isAllowed=y (accessed 29 January 2022).
World Bank (2015c) World Bank Forecasts Global Poverty to Fall Below 10% for First Time;
  Major Hurdles Remain in Goal to End Poverty by 2030.
  http://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2015/10/04/world-bank-forecasts-global-
  poverty-to-fall-below-10-for-first-time-major-hurdles-remain-in-goal-to-end-poverty-by-2030
  (accessed 5 July 2017).
World Bank (2016) Global Monitoring Report 2015/2016: Development Goals in an Era of
  Demographic Change (Washington, DC: World Bank).
World Bank (n.d.) Regional aggregation using 2011 PPP and $1.9/day poverty line.
  http://iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/povDuplicateWB.aspx (accessed 1 February 2022).
World Bank (2015b) ‘South Asia extreme poverty falls, but challenges remain’, 15 October.
  https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2015/10/15/south-asia-extreme-poverty-
  falls-but-challenges-remain (accessed 8 February 2022).
World Economic Forum (2006) China and the World: Scenarios to 2025.
  http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_Scenario_ChinaWorld2025_Report_2010.pdf
  (accessed 5 July 2017).
World Economic Forum (2016) The Gobal Risks Report 2016.
  https://www.weforum.org/reports/the-global-risks-report-2016 (accessed 1 February 2022).
World Economic Forum (2021) The Global Risks Report 2021.
  https://www.weforum.org/reports/the-global-risks-report-202 (accessed 1 February 2022).
Zakaria, F. (2020) Ten Lessons for a Post-Pandemic World (London: W. W. Norton &
  Company).


Journals
European Journal of Future Research: https://eujournalfuturesresearch.springeropen.com
Futures: https://www.journals.elsevier.com/futures Journal of Future Studies:
  https://jfsdigital.org
Chapter 16

Global strategic management in action:
Haier – the building of a global
champion, 1984–2020



This in-depth case study on the globalization of Haier illustrates most
of the subjects that have been covered in this textbook. The company
represents its pathway to globalization in a graph that is reproduced
here as Table 16.1.
Table 16.1 Haier’s six strategic stages




Source: Based on information from https://www.haier.com/global/about-haier/intro/?
to=2&spm=net.32024_pc.header_141698_20200720.2.(Accessed 13 April 2022)
Introduction
In 1979 Chairman Deng Xiaoping, Leader of the People’s Republic of
China, introduced the new economic philosophy Socialism with
Chinese Characteristics with his famous sentence ‘It does not matter
if a cat is white or black so long as it catches mice’ now being reused
to show an acceptance of some features of capitalist economic
thought. This announcement opened the way to introducing a form of
market economy into a highly regulated and bureaucratic system.
Before 1979 Chinese enterprises were all state-owned, operating in a
centrally planned economy. Enterprises were called ‘working units’;
clearly split into Technical Centres (for research), Factories (for
production) and Distribution depots and stores. The ‘cat’ revolution
allowed the progressive transformation of those entities into integrated
firms, capable of taking charge of the whole value chain. Company
ownership was distributed between state-owned (by central
government or local authorities) and collective enterprises; an open
door to privatization that was used by senior party members and
bureaucrats who increasingly took over these ex-collective enterprises
and floated them on stock exchanges. This was the context that saw
the 1984 merger of two factories in the municipality of Qingdao – the
Qingdao General Refrigerator Factory and the Qingdao Air
Conditioning Factory. The new entity kept the name Qingdao General
Refrigerator Company, but this was changed in 1992 to Qingdao Haier
Refrigerator Company, and later shortened to Haier. The first
manager of the newly formed company was an engineer from the
Qingdao municipality, Mr Zhang Ruimin.

Phases 1 and 2: building the brand and
diversification (1984–1998)
Zhang’s first stated objective was to make Haier the best refrigerator
manufacturer in China. His method of achieving this objective can be
characterized by three means: a) good management practices,
leading to quality products and high productivity; b) acquisition of
modern technology; and c) taking the opportunity to consolidate a
fragmented industry. In addition, he quickly moved to expand the
product offering by entering the market for related household
appliances.

Good management practices

Before 1979 and the movement towards more of a market economy,
Chinese management practice was characterized by a limited concern
with quality, poor productivity and a total lack of concern about the
consumer experience (since the concept of the consumer was alien to
the Marxist vocabulary). Qingdao General Refrigerator was typical of
this environment. Zhang was quick to perceive the radical strategic
shift that would be needed in this new market-driven atmosphere.
Buyers who had previously queued to buy whatever was coming out of
factories would progressively be attracted by products of good quality
at a good price. Zhang realized that if Haier could provide such
products it would benefit from the opportunity for growth in sales and
profits. That would require a radical change in management practices.
   Zhang dramatized the quality issue in 1985. Following a complaint
from a customer about the quality of the refrigerator he had just
bought, Zhang had seventy-six refrigerators brought out from the
warehouse to the street in front of the factory, ordered the 800 factory
workers outside to watch and had the seventy-six units
sledgehammered to pieces in public.1 Following up on that gesture, he
reorganized the workplace and introduced a series of management
practices based on Six Sigma2 concepts and the goal of ‘zero
defects’. Quality control was introduced throughout the manufacturing
process, instead of only being applied to the end products. He
introduced the technique of OEC (Overall, Everyone, Everything and
Everyday, Control and Clear) to induce workers to focus on rigour and
quality. Under this philosophy, management would introduce and retain
‘Overall Control of and Clarity on Everything that Every employee
finishes on his or her job Every day’. To ensure this on the productivity
front, he introduced a wage calculation card system based on the
daily performance of a series of seven attributes ranging from quality
to production planning, efficient use of materials, and discipline (the
‘everything, everyone, and every day’ performance record).3 Over the
years Zhang continued to reorganize frequently as was necessary to
keep improving quality, costs and innovation.

Technology acquisition

Poor manufacturing technology had characterized Chinese firms, so
Zhang decided to turn to foreign technology to change Haier’s
manufacturing process. He bought a manufacturing line under licence
from the German refrigerator firm Liebherr and a year later Haier was
able to introduce its first modern refrigerator, the ‘Four-star’, which
became a leading brand.

Industry consolidation

When Zhang took over in 1984 there were more than 110 local
refrigerator manufacturers in China. This was due to the introduction
of the market economy and the huge consumption eagerness of
Chinese families that it unlocked. Many companies wanted to benefit
from the boom in demand for refrigerators, but not all of them had the
economies of scale and the management and technical capabilities to
compete when the market matured and began to demand quality
products at good prices. Haier and a few other companies that were
able to raise their productivity and quality, and thus achieve better
financial results, could acquire their weaker competitors. Haier
acquired seventeen enterprises in China between 1988 and 1998.4

Product-related diversification

In 1988 the company expanded its product line by acquiring a
microwave oven factory in Qingdao. Between 1988 and 1995 it
entered the wider market of ‘white goods’ appliances: air conditioning,
washing machines, vacuum cleaners and cooking stoves. For instance,
in 1995 Haier acquired Red Star Electric Appliance Company, a
leading white goods manufacturer run by the Qingdao municipality. In
1996 it moved into ‘black goods’ – products such as TVs, video
recorders and DVD players. These moves allowed the company to
offer customers the whole range of household products from the same
supplier, and to reposition the brand name Haier as a broad provider
of home appliances, instead of just being known for refrigerators.
These acquisitions also allowed Haier to achieve operational synergies
in manufacturing, procurement and distribution.

The competitive battlefield of China in the 1990s
By the 1990s China’s appliances market was clearly divided into two
categories of player: domestic and foreigners.

Domestic players

As mentioned earlier, during the 1980s and the early 1990s the
number of domestic players in household appliances increased
massively. The majority of these firms had originally been initiated and
run by local government. Their products were of poor quality but the
newly unlocked demand was such that they could sell whatever they
produced despite this. When private investors and foreign firms
entered the industry, price competition increased and profit margins
decreased. As we have seen, this provided a golden opportunity for
the leading, more efficient companies such as Haier and Midea to
make acquisitions amongst these struggling firms and consolidate the
market. (See Table 16.2 for a short factual description of Midea
Group.) By 2019 the market was nearly a duopoly, with Haier and
Midea controlling over 50 per cent market share in the major
appliances market (see Table 16.2 and Figure 16.1).
Table 16.2 Head-to-head comparison of Haier Smart Home and Midea groups


                               Haier Smart Home             Midea
 Place of origin               Qingdao (Shandong            Beijiao (Guangdong
                                  Province)                       Province)
 Year of creation                            1984                            1968
 Revenue in 2019                           200.76**                         278.22
 (billion yuan)
 Number of employees                        99,757                         134,897
 2019
 Number of factories                           25                              21
 worldwide*
 Number of countries                         160+                             200
 present*
 Chinese market share                       30.6%                         19.8%***
 (2019)

Note: * We will discuss Haier’s global investments and foreign market strategy in the following
section, ‘Phases 3 and 4: internationalization and global brand strategy (1998–2012)’; ** Haier
Smart Home Annual Report 2019, p. 7 (http://smart-
home.haier.com/en/yjbg/P020200604564589608928.pdf?
appdesc=Haier%20Smart%20Home%20FY%202019%20Annual%20Report); *** Midea
Annual report 2019 (https://www.midea-group.com/asset/Midea-
Group/Financial%20report.zip/Midea-Group-2019-Annual-Report.pdf) (accessed 1 February
2022).
Figure 16.1 Evolution of market share in China in major appliances (2014–2019)
Source: Consumer Appliances: Euromonitor from trade sources/national statistics (date
exported 10 January 2020). © Euromonitor International.


Foreign players

The sheer size and untapped potential of the Chinese market attracted
several foreign companies from the USA, Europe, Japan and South
Korea to enter, especially in the 1990s. Their strategy was to rely on
their experience in their existing markets, their technological superiority
and the reputation and reach of their globally known brands. They
focused their efforts and expectations mainly on the high-end market.
By the early 2000s the Chinese market was showing signs of the
overcapacity that would lead to a price war.
   Whirlpool (from the USA – see Chapter 5) entered the Chinese
market in 1994 with four joint ventures: 1) with Snowflake in Beijing for
refrigerators; 2) with Narcissus in Shanghai for washing machines; 3)
with MVC in Shendu for microwave ovens; and 4) with Reibo in
Shenzen for air conditioners. Lack of product and management
adaptation led to disappointing results, which saw the company close
its refrigerator and air conditioner joint ventures as early as 1997.
   Electrolux (from Sweden) entered the market in 1997 with the
acquisition of Zhongyi Refrigerator and Hangzhou Wanbao Air-
Conditioner. Electrolux did acknowledge regional conditions as far as
localizing its management, but found itself struggling in the price war
against local Chinese players, and despite several reorganizations
was only able to achieve 0.5 per cent market share in 2016.
   Bosch-Siemens (a powerful German conglomerate) entered in 1994
by establishing a joint venture with a domestic washing machine
manufacturer in Wuxi. It had only managed to obtain a poor 3.2 per
cent market share by 2016.
   Japanese brands enjoyed a good reputation for quality and
performance but again their market share remained modest.
Panasonic, for instance, only achieved 1.4 per cent in 2016.
   Figure 16.2 shows the strategic positioning of the various players in
the Chinese appliance market in early 2010. Chinese players are
competing on price and their local knowledge while international
competitors are competing on differentiation based on technology and
marketing.




Figure 16.2 The competitive battlefield in China, 1990s to 2010
Note: Circle size indicates market share.


Phases 3 and 4: internationalization and global
brand strategy (1998–2012)
In the 1990s, having achieved domestic success and diversified its
product offering, Haier Group was able to start on the third stage of
its strategic development (see Table 16.1) – internationalization.
Table 16.3 Haier vs. global competitors, 2018–2021
Source: Haier website.
Note: Sales projections based on seventy-eight countries.


Internationalization

Haier’s internationalization strategy followed a three-step approach of:
  Going out, going in and going up. First, gain ground in the traditional major household
  appliance markets like Europe, USA and Japan by making [inroads] into the niche markets,
  then with the advantageous positions obtained in these major markets, rapidly expand the
  market presence in the developing countries. Next, take to the main channels of local
  markets with localized products that meet mainstream local user needs, and ultimately
  become the market leader of high-end and innovative products.5


‘Going out’: export

In the early 1990s Haier exported its products by contracting original
equipment manufacturing (OEM) arrangements with large distributors
or local producers, as well as some agents in Europe and the USA, to
manufacture goods for rebranding and resale. In Southeast Asian
countries that imposed a legal requirement on local content
manufacturing, the company entered into local OEM joint venture
agreements. Very soon – by 1992 – the company decided to adopt
the common international brand name ‘Haier’ for all its products, and
progressively move its export drive away from the OEM model.

‘Going in’: breaking into overseas markets
One way Haier discovered to establish its brand and to gain brand
recognition against giant US and European competitors was to gain a
foothold by focusing initially on niche products that were not well
served in the existing market. The positioning philosophy was to offer
quality products at an affordable price in markets that were neglected
by leading manufacturers.
   Haier gained some success with small refrigerators for hotels and
students’ bedrooms, home wine-chiller cabinets and, later on, small
freezers for small kitchens (established players in the USA especially
were focused on making big family-sized refrigerators or chest
freezers). Zhang later explained how Haier had identified this
unsatisfied market demand, based on a market survey it had done on
university and college campuses in order to understand the problems
of students living in small rooms. In the fields of these small
refrigerators and wine cabinets, Haier quickly took a leading market
share in the USA.

‘Going up’: foreign investment and becoming a
dominant international player

The first major greenfield direct investment by Haier was in 1999 with
the establishment of a $30 million, wholly owned refrigerator factory –
Haier America Refrigerators Co. – in Camden, North Carolina, USA.
This became the home of the Haier America Industrial Complex, and
was subsequently expanded over the years. The bold choice to go
straight into a sophisticated, crowded market like the USA was
justified by Chairman Zhang Ruimin, who explained that Haier’s
strategy was deliberately very different from that of other Chinese
enterprises which tended to first go after the easier markets of
Southeast Asia – ‘our strategy is the other way around: we go to
easier markets after we first penetrate difficult markets such as the
United States and Europe’.6
   In Europe Haier had already established local offices in most major
market countries and was marketing its China-made products through
a network of local distributors. In 1993 a joint venture with Merloni, an
Italian appliances manufacturer, was established to manufacture front-
loading washing machines designed for the Chinese market. In 1997,
Haier made an investment in Croatia (at that time, still part of
Yugoslavia) in the form of a small joint venture to manufacture air-
conditioning units for the European market.
  Table 16.4 lists the international acquisitions, joint ventures and
greenfield investments made by Haier since 2000.
Table 16.4 Haier’s key international industrial investments




Global marketing: global brand, localized brand name

The fourth stage in Haier’s plan (Table 16.1) was to address global
brand strategy. According to Zhang Ruimin, ‘All success relies on one
thing in overseas markets, creating a localized brand name. We have
to make Americans feel that Haier is a localized US brand instead of
an imported Chinese brand.’7 By the mid-2000s, in addition to local
manufacturing, local distribution and marketing, Haier had started to
implement a local design strategy to make products that fitted more
closely to local market characteristics. For instance, it introduced a
flat refrigerator for the Indian market and a three-door refrigerator for
the European market. Design centres were set up in France, Germany
and Italy while marketing headquarters were established in the major
European countries. This approach to localization demonstrated on a
larger scale the intelligent market research and local market sensitivity
that had worked so successfully for Haier’s initial entry into the USA
by filling the vacant compact refrigerators niche.
    With its localized products, Haier approached the main distribution
channels in each market to expand its market presence, operating
under and promoting the Haier brand regardless of the product type.
In 2016 the company claimed that it was present in the top ten chains
in the USA and Europe. Its presence by then covered more than 160
countries.
    However, in August 2016 following the acquisition of GE Appliances,
the global branding approach was dramatically changed with the
introduction of the ‘Haier Kitchen Appliances Matrix’. This consists of
five major brands: Haier Cooking, GE Appliances, Fisher & Paykel,
Casarte and Leader.
    During the two phases of global development, Haier came into
contact with, and quickly had to adapt to, a wide variety of customer
preferences. Zhang thus recognized the need to change the culture of
Haier from a manufacturing orientation to a customer orientation. He
wanted to create a service-oriented company designed to achieve
‘zero distance to the customer’.8 This move was referred to as market
chain management or, according to Zhang, Rendanheyi (connecting
user value to the value that employees shared). The philosophy was to
make sure that everyone in the company would be in contact with a
customer all along the value chain. So, for instance, a design
department working on a freezer would be the customer of a technical
laboratory working on the necessary cryogenic technology, while the
freezer product manufacturing unit would be the customer of the
design department and so on until the final customer (the purchaser of
the unit). Each department would become a strategic business unit
(SBU) having autonomy in making operating decisions and measuring
performance. Those units were called ZZJYTs (Zi Zhu Jing Ying Ti:
literally translated as ‘independent operation units’). There were three
kinds of ZZJYT unit: a) those in direct contact with customers, which
were in charge of understanding the market, designing the products
and manufacturing and distributing them; b) support functions such as
logistics, running the facilities, quality assurance and control, and
human resources management; c) strategic and corporate
management functions.9 By 2012 there were around 2,000 ZZJYTs,
containing 60,000 employees, spread across the five continents.

Phase 5: global integrated network (2012–2019)
– consolidating global leadership
Over the first five phases of strategic development (Table 16.1),
Zhang Ruimin, the chairman of Haier, showed his willingness to
radically change management systems, and even the whole culture of
the company, to fit with changing competitive requirements.
   In 2012, Zhang introduced a further change in management culture
and processes with the view ‘to transform the company from an
enterprise that manufactures household appliances to become a
networked enterprise that fits into the internet age’.10 A central
component of this new business model, Rendanheyi 2.0, is its reliance
on a community of interests (COI) grouping of the ZZJYTs, users and
partners into a network as a platform for development and market
responsiveness. Users are linked to the COI via internet forums in
which they discuss product features and usage, and propose
innovation and changes. Rendanheyi 1.0 had encouraged a similar
openness and sharing of ideas amongst Haier staff. Under 2.0,
partnerships are sought with universities, technology companies or
even with competitors, while the ZZJYTs are in charge of integrating
those agreed changes into the design, development, production and
distribution of the products themselves.
   An example of this type of collaboration is Haier’s development of a
water purification product. The specialized purification technology,
which was outside Haier’s existing expertise, comes from collaboration
with Strauss, an Israeli technology company, as well as via the sharing
of patents with Dow Chemical of the USA. Haier also collected and
distributed information online about water-quality problems in various
places in China. This combination of detailed information and access
to the cutting-edge technology and expertise of its partners allows
Haier to offer customers the best possible water purification product,
designed and modified for the specific water impurity issues in their
area.11 See Figure 16.3 for a schematic representation of this model
in operation.
   In 2017 the company stated: ‘Haier has managed to turn a
traditional closed hierarchical system into a networked node
organization, integrating first-class resources from around the world in
an open way; and in manufacturing, Haier has explored replacing
traditional physical plants with inter-connected factories and making
the transformation from mass manufacturing to mass customization.’12




Figure 16.3 Schematic representation of Rendanheyi 2.0 as applied to water purifiers

   By adopting Rendanheyi 2.0, Haier nurtured entrepreneurial talent
and achieved great financial performance. For example, Haier’s
incubation, investment and acceleration platform, HCH Ventures, was
a platform that helped entrepreneurs start and run their business. By
the end of 2017, 2,483 entrepreneurship projects were on its HCH
Ventures with 256 of these moving on to incubators, and 4,325
entrepreneurship and innovation incubation resources were available
on the platform. Haier established 24 incubators in 9 countries around
the world. By 2019, Haier had more than 200 micro enterprises, 3,800
service and support micro enterprises and 1.22 million micro-stores
that were creating an open platform to attract human resources and
investment from society.13
   Transformation was disruptive by nature but Haier’s employees in
Asia and North America embraced Zhang’s business model. In
January 2019, Haier acquired the Italian appliance manufacturer,
Candy, where Rendanheyi was introduced next.




Figure 16.4 Haier’s inverted pyramid organizational structure Source: Haier presentation at
INSEAD 2018.


Phase 6: ecosystem strategy (2019–)
According to a case by Koo, Lee and Minnaar (2022):
  The consumer landscape Haier faced had become increasingly complex and competitive
  … Companies that would become dominant in this landscape were not those that built
  products and services for a single customer use, but those that created ecosystems
  around their products and services to deliver integrated experiences.
    Around 2015, top managers at Haier became increasingly aware of the potential of an
  ecosystem strategy in the home appliances business.
   On 8 August 2016, at the tenth Davos Brand Day held at the Davos
Convention Center in Dalian, Liang Haishan, Vice Chairman of the
board of directors and Rotating President of Haier Group, delivered a
keynote speech entitled ‘Haier Builds Ecosystem Brand in the Internet
Era with the Rendanheyi Model’.
   According to Zhang Ruimin, Chairman of the board of directors and
CEO of Haier Group, Haier is not only a product brand and enterprise
brand, but is gradually developing into a leading ecosystem brand
under the model of community economy.
   On 10 May 2018, China Brand Day, Zhang proposed the concept
‘ecosystem brand’ for the first time. This was considered an iteration
and innovation to the brand connotation that followed the product
brand and platform brand. It was the world’s first definite plan to build
an ecosystem brand in the Internet of Things (IoT) age.14
   A year later in June 2019, Haier announced it would change its
name from Qingdao Haier Co Ltd to Haier Smart Home Co. Ltd,
indicating Haier’s smart home-centric strategy was leading the
company’s development. This was followed in December 2019, with
Zhang’s announcement on the beginning of the sixth strategic
development stage – Ecosystem Brand stage.
   After a few years of development, in October 2020 Haier unveiled
the ‘Three-Winged Bird’ – an instance of what Haier referred to as a
‘scenario brand’. Unlike a traditional brand, which encompasses a
series of products that fall under the same umbrella but are promoted
and sold separately, Haier’s conception of a scenario brand consisted
of an interconnected set of products that were promoted as a
package.
   For example, with Haier’s Three-Winged Bird scenario brand, a user
could announce in their living room that they wanted to take a nap.
This announcement would then activate three appliances and devices
– the electric curtain, the air conditioner and the humidifier.
   The Ecosystem Brand system consists of breaking the organization
into approximately 4,000 micro enterprises (ME) organized around
users’ needs for a scenario referred as ‘Ecosystem Micro
Communities’ (EMC). Each EMC consists of two parts: the Experience
EMC and the Solution EMC. The Experience EMC is responsible for
obtaining the user needs. These are then transferred to the Solution
EMC which provides solutions to the issues. These micro enterprises
are linked through contractual agreements that define the amount of
profit to be shared. The IT platform Haier developed (EMC
Workbench) ensures the accountability of the teams in the MEs, taking
on the traditional role of a manager. The platform automates the
bidding process for jobs and contracts. It also tracks employee
performance relative to goals and subsequent bonuses that are
calculated and dispersed through blockchain technology.15
 EMCs were temporary structures that connected various MEs as well as external partners.
 What made EMCs unique was their ability to quickly and flexibly bring different
 stakeholders together with different expertise to collaborate on a new product or service.
    For example, the Internet of Food (IoF) Ecosystem brings together different EMCs:
 smart cooking, storage, ingredients, cleaning, dishes, mother and infant food.
    Anybody could propose an EMC by submitting a long-term vision, an estimate of
 resources required and potential profit to an internal committee called the Great Shared
 Platform. This was comprised of members of different functional areas, such as HR, legal,
 finance and others. Upon approval, the EMC was formally registered in Haier’s internal
 digital platform. Once registered, EMCs could start to attract the right resources to help
 them achieve their vision.16

   By the beginning of 2020, Haier had successfully incubated four
listed companies (Haier Smart Home, Haier Electronics, Haier
Biomedical, INKON Life), five unicorn companies (a privately held
start-up company valued at over $1 billion) and 23 gazelle companies
(a high-growth company that has been increasing its revenues by at
least 20 per cent annually for four years or more, starting from a
revenue base of at least $1 million). It owns a number of ecosystem
brands including Haier, Casarte, Leader, GE Appliances (US), Fisher
& Paykel (New Zealand), AQUA (Japan), Candy (Italy), COSMOPlat,
RRS Logistics, Yingkang Life, Haier Biomedical, Haina Cloud, HCH
and Haier Brothers.
   By early 2022, initial returns on the most recent evolution of the
Rendanheyi model – and the EMC structure – were positive and
indicated that it was supportive of Haier’s strategy.
Learning assignments

Phases 1 and 2

1    Explain how the two leading players in the Chinese appliances
    market were able to obtain such a dominant (nearly 50 per
    cent) market share by 2016.
2    Why were foreign firms not able to gain a significant market
    share in China?

Phases 3 and 4

1   What were the benefits and risks for Haier in the decision to
  concentrate first on entering advanced markets such as the
  USA or Europe while most Chinese firms tended to enter
  emerging markets first?
2      What were the risks for Haier in undertak-ing costly
  international acquisitions and joint ventures?
3   Can you comment on the mini-fridge example? What does it
  demonstrate about Haier’s approach and philosophy?

Phase 5

Give your critical views on the ZZJYT’s organization and
community of interests model. How different are these from the
decentralized organization and strategic alliances approaches?

Phase 6

Do you think that Haier’s organization around micro enterprises
(MEs) and Ecosystems Micro Communities (EMCs) will allow
Haier to succeed in a competitive environment increasingly based
on ecosystems and platforms? Why or why not?

Notes
1   See http://www.bbc.com/news/business-24622247 (accessed 6 July 2017).
2    Six Sigma is a set of quality management techniques which aims to ensure that
   99.999 per cent ofarts manufactured will be free from defects.
3 Fisher, Lago and Liu (2013: 51).
4 Crawford, Zend and Schütte (2000).
5      Haier website: http://www.haier.net/en/about_haier/haier_global/OverseasMarket/
   (consulted 29 March 2017).
6 Wu (2003).
7 Ibid.
8 Campbell, Meyer, Xin and Stack (2015).
9 Fisher, Lago and Liu (2013: Ch. 4).
10                        CEO              profile,           company             website:
   http://www.haier.net/en/about_haier/Leadership/introduction/ (consulted 4 April 2017).
11             http://www.haier.net/en/about_haier/news/201505/t20150508_268224.shtml
   (accessed 13 April 2017).
12 Ibid.
13                                             https://smart-home.haier.com/en/gsgk/?sp-
   m=inverstor.31557_pc.irheader_20200506_1.1 (accessed 1 February 2022).
14 The Internet of things (IoT) describes the network of physical objects — a.k.a. ‘things’
   — that are embedded with sensors, software and other technologies for the purpose
   of connecting and exchanging data with other devices and systems over the internet.
15 Bernstein, Lee and Minnaar (2022).
16 Koo, Lee and Minnaar (2022).


References and further reading
Bernstein, E., Lee, M. and Minnaar, J. (2022), ‘How companies are using tech to give
  employees more autonomy’, Boston Harvard Business Review.
  https://hbr.org/2022/01/how-companies-are-using-tech-to-give-employees-more-
  autonomy (accessed 1 February 2022).
Campbell, D., Meyer, M., Xin Lee, S. and Stack, K. (2015) ‘Haier: zero distance to
  customer (A)’, Harvard Business School Case, no. 9-115-006, June.
Crawford, R., Zend, M. and Schütte, H. (2000) ‘China’s Haier Group: growth through
  acquisitions’, INSEAD Case 03/2001-4898.
Fisher, B., Lago, U. and Liu, F. (2013) Reinventing Giants How Chinese Competitor Haier
  has
Changed the Way Big Companies Transform (San Francisco, CA: Jossey Bass).
Hamel, G. and Zanini, M. (2020) ‘Humanocracy: creating organizations as amazing as the
  people inside them’, Boston Harvard Business Review.
Koo, W. W., Lee, M. Y. and Minnaar, J. (2022), Haier: organizing to build a smart
  ecosystem brand, INSEAD case, 03/2022-6724
Wu, Y. (2003) ‘China’s refrigerator magnate’, McKinsey Quarterly, 3: 106–16.
Zohar, D. (2022) What Makes a Quantum Organization? In Zero Distance (Singapore:
  Palgrave Macmillan).
      Glossary1



Absorption mode of integration.
According to Jemison and Haspeslagh, absorption acquisitions take
place between companies operating in similar industries and business
contexts. The objective here is to achieve as rapidly as possible the
necessary synergies through consolidation and rationalization of
activities.

Acculturation
Is the process by which group members from one culture adapt to
the culture of a different group.

Adjusted Present Value Country risk (APV)
A technique of discounted cash flow in which specific downside
adverse risks are identified, their impact on the cash flow is
calculated, a probability of their occurrence is determined, the cash
flows are adjusted using the probabilistic distribution, the cash flows
are translated into the investor’s currency using the Purchasing
Power Parity differences as a proxy for currencies fluctuation and
cash flows are discounted using the investor’s cost of capital.

Advertising agency
Is an external supplier of design and sourcing of advertising and
promotion instruments for a company or a particular brand.
Alliance
An alliance is the sharing of capabilities between two or more firms
with the view of enhancing their competitive advantages and/or
creating new business without losing their respective strategic
autonomy. Alliances can take several legal forms from simple long
term contracts to equity joint ventures.

Arbitrage
Economic arbitrage exists when it is possible to buy a product in one
market and simultaneously sell it in another market at a higher price.
Dealers in foreign exchange often use arbitrage on foreign currencies
that are not exactly quoted at the same rate of exchange on different
markets. With electronic transactions it is possible to buy and sell
simultaneously. Commodities traders use also arbitrage. By extension
the concept is often used even if there is no simultaneity: for instance
difference in taxation between countries in a free trade area may take
advantage of arbitrage opportunities.

Asymmetric Development
In international economics, economic development is considered as
asymmetric when countries develop at considerably different rates.
For instance the gap in revenues between African and Western
countries has increased over time, showing a strong asymmetry.

Back office
Refers to those activities of a firm that are not in contact with
customers such as warehousing, IT, accounting or the kitchen in a
restaurant.

Bargaining range
In a negotiation the difference between the buyer’s and the seller’s
reservations prices. If the seller’s reservation price is higher than the
buyer’s reservation price there is no feasible negotiation.

Best Practices
Any practice, knowledge, know-how or experience that has been
proven to be valuable or effective within one organization that may
have applicability to other organizations (this definition is thanks to
Chevron Corporation). For instance if one subsidiary of a multinational
company has developed a successful way to launch a product, this
may be considered as a best practice that can possibly be
transferred to other subsidiaries. Professor Sulanzki pinpointed that
there are a lot of difficulties in transferring best practices between
units of the same company. He called it ‘stickiness’.

Biodiversity
The diversity of living animal and vegetal organisms.

Blue Ocean strategy
A term coined by Professors Chan Kim and Renée Mauborgne to
define innovative strategies based on redefining the components of a
business system and creating a new market space.

Bottom of the Pyramid
According to Prahalad the ‘Bottom of the Pyramid’ in emerging
countries is constituted by the largest proportion of the population,
located at the lower end of income, who are willing to consume
goods that are of good quality but a lower price level, adapted
formulation and packaging.

BOT
B.O.T (Build Operate and Transfer) is an infrastructure construction
or maintenance contract by which the project manager is not only in
charge of the construction but also of the management of operations.
At the end of a given period the infrastructure is handed over to the
customer. The project manager is responsible for the output and is
paid on the basis of a predetermined price per unit of output ($ per
kilowatt/hour, $ per toll fee, $ per cubic meter of water, etc.). For
instance, a Western electricity company that builds or takes over a
power generation plant in China or a water treatment company
manging the water distribution network in Jakarta. There are many
derivative to BOT:

•    BOO (Build Operate and Own): the project manager keeps
  ownership.
•   BOOT (Build Own Operate and Transfer): the project manager
  has full ownership of the infrastructure during the period of
  operation.
•   ROT (Refurbish, Operate and Transfer): similar to BOT but with
  old installations to refurbish.

Bribe
A form of direct corruption, generally a cash payment or a bank
transfer to an overseas account.

Bricks and mortars
As opposed to internet based operations, brick and mortar
operations are those that require tangible fixed assets to operate:
factories, branches, stores etc.

BRICS
Refers to Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa but has
increasingly become a term to name emerging countries.

Browsers
A software application used to locate and display web pages. The
most popular browsers are Google Chrome and Microsoft Edge. All
of these are graphical browsers, which means that they can display
graphics as well as text. (Definition from GreatNexus Webmaster
Resources.)

Business etiquette
The set of body gestures, clothing codes, ways of expressing
oneself, social behaviors and attitudes that are considered as proper
in a given business circle. For instance, business etiquette in Japan
requires a ceremonial exchange of business cards.

Business strategy
There are many definition of business strategy. In this book we offer
the following definition:
A company business strategy is a set of fundamental choices, which
define its long-term objectives, its value proposition to the market,
how it intends to build and sustain a competitive business system and
how it organizes itself.

Californisation
This word has been used by Kenichi Ohmae, in his book Triad Power
to describe the world convergence of consumers’ tastes, particularly
among young people.

Carbon trading schemes
Market mechanisms through which carbon credits are exchanged.
The most utilized market mechanisms are the cap-and-trade
schemes, under which a regulatory body sets a limit (the cap) on the
amount of CO2 that companies are allowed to emit. Companies that
emit more than their cap have to purchase credits from a company
that has kept below the cap.

Capabilities fit
In an alliance or an acquisition, capabilities fit assessment consists of
determining whether the respective contributions of the partners in an
alliance or the combination of assets, resources and competences in
a merger or acquisition are supplementing or complementing each
others’. When performing a capabilities fit analysis one should first
determine the required resources, assets and competencies needed
for competitiveness of the alliance or the merged entity. Then one
draws for each partner the specific contribution in each element of
the value chain. Then in the last phase one determines the potential
gap to be filled by joint investment and one evaluates whether the
mutual contributions plus the additional investments make the future
alliance effective.

Career plan
The planned evolution of a person in an organization in terms of
potential future functions, job rotation and training.

Centre of excellence
An organizational unit (plant, laboratory, product development centre,
etc.) that has developed a particular high quality in expertise that can
possibly be transferred to other units.

Clusters
Professor Michael Porter in his book Competitive Advantage of
Nations uses the term ‘clusters’ to describe regions of the world in
which some industries have developed a high level of competitiveness
thanks to a supporting demand, supply and competitive context.

Coalition alliance
Coalitions are alliances in which competitors, distributors and
suppliers in an industry put together their capabilities to develop
markets or to establish a common standard.

Code of conduct
What a particular organization regards as good practice in its
operations with regard to its social and environmental responsibilities.

Co-location
Where people or organizational units are physically located at the
same site.

Combination
The process of combining different elements of explicit knowledge
into written, codified formats.
Comparative advantage
The Theory of Comparative Advantage is commonly referred to as
the ‘Ricardian model’. The original description of the idea can be
found in an Essay on the External Corn Trade by Robert Torrens
(1815). David Ricardo formalized the idea using a compelling yet
simple numerical example in his 1817 book, On the Principles of
Political Economy and Taxation. According to the principle of
comparative advantage, the gains from trade follow from allowing an
economy to specialize. If a country is relatively better at making wine
than wool, it makes sense for it to put more resources into wine, and
to export some of the wine to pay for imports of wool. This is even
true if that country is the world’s best wool producer, since the
country will have more of both wool and wine than it would have
without trade. A country does not have to be the best at anything to
gain from trade. The gains follow from specializing in those activities
which, at world prices, the country is relatively better at, even though
it may not have an absolute advantage in them. Because it is relative
advantage that matters, it is meaningless to say a country has a
comparative advantage in nothing. The term is one of the most
misunderstood ideas in economics, and is often wrongly assumed to
mean an absolute advantage compared with other countries. (These
definitions come from the International Study Centre at
http://internationalecon.com/v1.0/ch40/40c000.html for the first part
and the World Trade Organisation web site for the second part.)

Compensation
Remuneration and benefits given to a person for specific work.
Refers to remuneration of employees.

Competencies
Refer to the collective know-how of an organization. This know-how
can be technological or managerial. Competencies can be a source
of competitive advantage if the know-how is difficult to buy, replicate
or imitate by competitors. Some competencies are called ‘core
competencies’ when they are specific to a firm.
Constellations
A form of alliance with multiple partners. Doz & Hamel identified three
types of constellations: networks, portofolios and webs. Alliance
networks are those in which multiple partners contribute to one goal,
increase reach, adopt a common standard or promote a new
technology. Alliance portfolios are those in which a company enters
into a partnership with multiple companies. Alliance webs are those in
which multiple partners contribute and benefit interdependently.

Convergence
A theory according to which societies become more and more similar.
This concept is used in international marketing to describe the fact
that consumers tend to progressively behave the same way across
the world.

Corporate culture
The set of values and beliefs that are shared by employees in a
corporation.

Corporate Strategy
In a multi-business corporation, the corporate strategy consists in
defining its long term objectives, selecting its business portfolio,
allocating resources across businesses and design its organizational
structure, processes and systems.

Corruption
The definition of corruption given by Transparency International is:
‘the abuse of public office for private gain’. Corruption involves a
corruptor (the person who delivers the private gain) and a corrupted
(the person who receives it). As compensation the corruptor expects
some favor or gain from the corrupted.

Co-specializations
Co-specialization alliances are alliances in which partners combine
complementing capabilities.
Cost of Capital
The cost of capital is the cost at which future cash flows are
discounted in order to obtain the net present value (NPV) of an
investment. Generally the cost of capital is calculated as the weighted
average of cost of debts (interest on loans) and cost of equity (the
minimum return that shareholders are expecting from their own
investment).

Cost of capital adjustment (CCA)
A technique of discounted cash flow in which the adverse risks are
taken into consideration by adding a specific risk factor to the cost of
capital used for the calculation.

Cost Leadership
According to Professor Michael Porter, Cost Leadership is a strategy
by which firms gain and sustain competitive advantage thanks to a
lower cost position than their competitors. Generally cost leadership
is linked to size: the higher the size, the higher the economies of scale
and hence the lower the costs.

Country Diamond
Term used by Professor Michael Porter in his book The Competitive
Advantage of Nations to describe the four context dimensions that
characterize the competitiveness of a country (or a cluster - see
above). The four dimensions are: 1) a Context that encourages
vigorous competition and investment, 2) the presence of related and
supporting industries, 3) demanding customers and 4) the quality of
resources (human capital, natural resources, infrastructure etc.).

Country life cycle
The theory according to which countries follow a development path
from emerging to maturity.

Country risk analysis
Set of techniques used to assess how risky a country is. The four
dimensions of country risks are: political, economical, competitive and
operational.

Country stock market beta
A measure of risk developed by Professor Don Lessard comparing
the volatility of a country’s stock market with another one.

Cross-listing
Refers to the listing of a corporation to several world stock markets.

Cryptocurrencies
A form of digital money that is transacted by individuals on a peer-to-
peer basis through a coded mechanism (‘encrypted’) using a
denomination (e.g. Bitcoin) different from official currencies (dollars,
pounds, euros, yen etc.).

Cultural fit
In an alliance or an acquisition, cultural fit assessment consists of
determining whether the companies involved exhibit similar or
dissimilar values and ways of doing business.

Cultural heritage
The values and norms that are the results of past historical
experience.

Currency swaps
A technique of currency risk hedging. It consists of contracts
intermediated by a swap bank that is matching long terms loans
issued by two companies in their respective currency zones for use in
the other company’s currency zone. Company X borrows in Currency
A to be used in country B with loan repayment generated in currency
B, while company Y borrows in currency B to be used in country A
with loan repayment generated in currency A.
Customer value curve
The set of factors that customers explicitly or implicitly consider
valuable for them in a product or service. Also called ‘customer utility
curve’. A customer value curve can be used by firms to compare their
product or service offering with that of their competitors. Customer
value curves are one of the main tools used by the strategic approach
designed by Professsors Kim and Mauborgne called ‘Value
Innovation’.

Cybercrimes
Attempts to exploit property (or sometimes human integrity) through
the internet. The most frequent cybercrimes are the diffusion of
electronic viruses and illegal access to databases to steal money or
information.

Death valley
A frequent phenomenon encountered in joint ventures and alliances at
the early stages of implementation when partners discover
unexpected behavior or surprises. Death Valley can generate deep
conflicts.

Deglobalization
A neologism used by ATTAC, an anti globalization NGO, to
recommend that countries (particularly developing countries) re-
orientate their production to serve local markets and not global ones.

Differentiation
How firms position themselves differently to their competitors.
According to Professor Michael Porter, differentiation is a strategy by
which firms gain and sustain competitive advantage thanks to superior
product functionalities, superior service and superior quality that
create ‘barriers to imitation’.

Distribution function
The part of a logistical process that organizes the channels for the
physical distribution of parts and products.

Documentary credit
A well established technique of trade financing. The principle is that
an importer of goods mandates his bank to issue a letter of credit
that guarantees the exporter that he will be paid on receipt of
shipping documents establishing the proof that goods have actually
been delivered to the transport company.

Dotcom companies
Companies operating essentially though the internet.

Dotted lines relationship
A term used to describe a non-hierarchical relationship between
individuals or organizational units that need to establish some kind of
mutual reporting.

Due diligence
The investigation that a potential acquirer carries out in order to value
a targeted asset. Originally due diligence was essentially financial.
More recently it is also applied to non financial elements such as
managerial capabilities and culture.

E-Commerce
A generic term to describe commercial transactions through the
internet.

Eco-friendly capital investments
Factories and facilities designed and built with a low environmental
impact perspective.

Electronic Data Interchange (EDI)
The sharing of data between a supplier and a customer used to place
orders and settle transactions electronically.
Electronic Marketplaces
Internet based procurement web sites.

Emerging countries
Countries that exhibit: a) high economic growth, b) an increasing
development of a middle class, c) a high degree of infrastructure
investments and d) an opening of their market to international trade
and investment.

Emerging countries champions
Companies based in emerging countries and that can pretend to be
globally competitive.

Entry modes
The kind of operation that a foreign investor is setting in order to
operate in a country. Entry mode describes the legal form of the
operation as well as the size of the investment that the foreigner is
willing to make. The main types of entry modes are: wholly-owned
investment, acquisition, joint venture or licencing.

Environmental crisis
An ecological disaster.

Ethics
The codes of conduct that guide non-corrupted behavior.

Externalization
The process of articulating tacit knowledge into explicit concepts
through metaphors, pictures and theoretical formulations.

Expatriates
People employed in one country with a contract originated in another
country. Frequently designates managerial personnel sent by
corporate headquarters to work in a foreign subsidiary.
Explicit knowledge
Knowledge that can be documented precisely and therefore that can
be communicated and transferred.

Export credit agencies
Government agencies that act like insurers and cover the risks
associated with international trade and investments. As a result the
exporter and the foreign investor can benefit from export credits.

Extractive agenda
When partners are primarily motivated to enter into a strategic
alliance in order to learn something from their partner or to obtain
resources that they would otherwise have difficulty obtaining by
themselves.

Fair trade marketing
A form of international trade promoting rules and practices that
provide better terms of trade for small and medium-sized producers
from the developing world.

Fair process
A management practice that consists of a) Engagement: Involvement
of relevant people, seeking inputs and allowing them to challenge
ideas, b) Explanation: everybody who is involved or affected should
understand why a particular decision was taken, and c) Expectation:
clearly defining someone’s role and responsibilities. According to
Professors Kim and Mauborgne, fair process is needed in order to
get people involved in difficult or innovative decisions.

First mover advantages
The competitive advantages that a company gains by being the first
or among the first to enter a new market. First mover advantages can
be due to the preemption of existing resources, the creation of a
standard or the ability to rapidly create entry barriers for newcomers.
Fit analysis
The study of the possible compatibility between partners in an
alliance or between buyers and sellers in an acquisition. There are
four types of fit: strategic, capabilities, cultural and organizational.

Forward contracts
Contracts by which the contracting parties commit to buy or sell
goods or currency at a given price at a predetermined date. Foreign
exchange forward contracts are a classical way to hedge against
exchange rate fluctuation.

Franchise
A contract by which the owner of a brand (the franchiser) grants an
individual or a company (the franchisee) the right to operate under its
brand. Franchise contracts are generally granted under the condition
that the franchisee respects a certain number of quality practices
defined by the franchiser.

Front office
Designates activities that are in direct contact with customers.

Future contracts
Contracts by which the contracting parties agree carrying out a
transaction at an anticipated date at predetermined conditions.
Forward contracts are one category of future contract but future
contracts can also cover agreements that are not necessarily based
on a financial transaction.

Global accounts
Global accounts are customers that are operating globally and for
whom the suppliers negotiate and manage the delivery of goods or
services in an integrated way across borders.

Global business strategy
A business strategy that defines the ways and locations in which a
company decides to compete across borders.

Global Capability Index
An index to measure to what extent a company has globalized its
assets and personnel: how assets or personnel are distributed
across the world.

Global chess
The ability for a multinational company to cross-subsidise one country
by another in order to compete more effectively in that country. For
instance selling at a loss in country A to oblige a competitor in country
B to lower its profits in country A.

Global hub
A highly centralized organisation such as worldwide functional or
global product structure.

Global industries
Industries in which, in order to survive, competitors need to operate in
the key world markets in an integrated and co-ordinated way.

Global leaders development
Is the way careers of leaders are enhanced through practices that
mix formal training, facilitating skills acquisition as well as coaching in
the various global roles that managers are likely to play during their
careers.

Global Managers
Managers whose career is made up of successive appointments in
different countries.

The Global/Multi-local mapping
Analytical and graphical tool developed to position industries and
industry segments according to the relative importance of global and
local forces.

Global positioning
Global positioning consists of the definition of the various value
propositions for the products or services of the company,
corresponding to the type of segments and countries in which the
company wants to compete.

Global Revenue Index
An index measuring the distribution of sales of a company across the
major regions of the world relative to the distribution of markets
across the same regions.

Global solution selling
The sales of a valuable solution to a client located in a particular
country that implies the mobilization of resources and competencies
of several subsidiaries across the world on the part of the seller.

Global warming
Increasing warming of the planet due to greenhouse effects resulting
from emission of CO2.

Globalization
The progressive change in competitive structures from multinational
(country by country) to global (worldwide).

Grand Tour
The fact finding trip of corporate executives in countries where the
company is considering foreign investment in view of assessing the
countries’ attractiveness.

Hedging
A technique of reducing risk by settling risky transactions at
predetermined fixed terms. Often used to manage risks resulting from
currency variation.
Hierarchy of needs
A theory developed by Maslow according to which humans start by
satisfying their primary needs and progressively move up to more
intellectual and artistic needs when the primary needs are satisfied.

Holocracy
Defined as an organization where authority and decision making are
distributed throughout self-organizing teams rather than a
management hierarchy. Holocracy is based on three principles: 1) no
job title or manager; 2) no hierachy of managers; 3) every role is
accountable.

Hub
In the context of global business a hub is a location that serves and
supports several other locations in a region. Typically in a hub
services and logistical activities would be concentrated: for example
Singapore or Hong Kong for Asia; Geneva, London or Brussels for
Europe.

Inclusive financing
Financing systems that serve individuals and businesses that have
difficulties in opening banking services.

Individualism
Individualism is a cultural characteristic of a society in which individual
interests are emphasized over collective ones.

Individualized corporation
A new organizational model proposed by Ghoshal and Bartlett in
which new management competencies and roles are redefined in a
portfolio of three key processes: the renewal process, the integration
process and the entrepreneurial process.

Industrial ecosystem
A group of interacting firms that depend on each other’s activities.
Industry 4.0
Manufacturing systems based on data exchange and automation.
Industry 4.0 technologies may use connected mobile devices,
advanced algorithms and 3D printing, for example.

Industry analysis
The systematic analysis and forecast of demand, competitive forces
and risk in an industry.

Industry culture
The norms and ways of thinking that are common to people operating
in a given industry.

Innovation
The process of inventing and developing new concepts, products or
services.

Institutional void
Institutional void occurs in a country when information problems,
misguided regulations and inefficient judicial systems fail in the proper
functioning of economic activities (i.e, market failures).

Integration process
The process by which various firms and activities are made to work
together. Following a merger, acquisition or an alliance, the post
merger integration process organizes the way two firms are working
together from partial to full integration of their activities.

Intellectual property
The legal ownership of a patent, a design, a brand, an artistic or a
literary production.

Internal stickiness
The difficulty for different units of an organization to exchange ideas
and practices.
Interface management
Defines the mechanisms by which two or several partners organize
their relationships and communication in an alliance.

International division
An organizational design for managing international operations by
centralizing the control of geographical subsidiaries in one division
reporting to top management.

International product life cycle
The theory according to which new products are launched
sequentially over time internationally from developed countries to less
developed ones.

Internet of things
Describes networked devices communicating with their users and
with each other (smart factory, for instance).

Joint venture
The legal form by which two or more companies organize their
collaboration. Joint ventures can be conducted under the form of
equity contribution or under a contractual arrangement.

Joint venture decay
The phenomenon that typically occurs in a joint venture after several
years when partners have obtained what they wanted from their
collaboration and no longer see the value of the joint venture.

Joint venture for market entry
A joint venture that allies a foreign investor and one or several local
partners with a view to creating or developing a business in the
country.

Knowledge management
A managerial process by which companies capture and internally
distribute strategic, commercial and technical information.

Leading and lagging
A technique of international cash management consisting of delaying
or accelerating the payment of expenses and the receipt of income
according to the strengths and weaknesses of the currencies
involved.

Learning alliances
Alliances whose main purpose is for the companies involved to
generate new knowledge or to gain knowledge from each other.

Licensing
A contract by which the owner of a product, a service or a process
(the licensor) authorises another party (the licensee) to manufacture
the product, deliver the service or use the process for its own benefit.

Location
The choice of place to set up an economic activity (offices, plant,
distribution centres, research activities etc.)

Local Manager
A manager recruited and operating within a country.

Logistics
The physical handling, transportation and storage of goods.

Macroeconomic indicators
Measures that indicate the economic characteristics of a country, for
instance production, growth, income, trade and investments.

Market segmentation
The division of consumers into categories according to different
criteria and who exhibit different demand characteristics.
Marketing Positioning
The choice made by a company of the market segments in which it
wants to compete and the definition of the various elements of its
approach to those segments (its ‘value propositions’).

Matrix
An organizational design by which the line of command is shared by
two or more decision makers. In global firms the typical matrix is
either function and geography or business and geography.

Megacities
A urban area in which 10 million or more people live.

Mentoring
In global firms, the human resource management process by which
expatriate personnel are coached by a ‘mentor’ at the corporate
level.

Metanational
A global firm that leverages innovation across countries.

Middle Class
In economic terms, the population that can afford to purchase goods
and services beyond what is needed for subsistence, but who do not
belong to the country’s wealthy elite.

Middle Class Effect
The effect by which the size of the middle class increases more
rapidly than the average of the economy.

Missions
Short-term international assignments.

Modularization
The technology of producing goods and services by subcomponents
that can be assembled according to various configurations.

Multinational companies
Companies that operate in different countries.

Nanotechnology
Technologies using materials with a nano scale (1/1,000,000 mm).

National and ethnic culture
Norms and values that are characteristic of a nation or an ethnic or
religious group.

Netting
An international cash management system by which only the net cash
movements are transferred across borders. Netting minimizes foreign
exchange risk exposure.

Network architecture
Defines the role of plants as information and knowledge creators in
addition to the traditional roles of foreign factories as supply bases.

Network Externalities
The economic benefits accrued to a product or service derived from
the number of existing users of this product or from related products.
Examples of network externalities are products based on technical
standards such as mobile phones, video discs, IT systems or
services such as auctions.

Networked organization
How an organisation manages its activities through a strong exchange
of information and co-ordination of actions between internal and
external units through partnerships and alliances.

Offsourcing
The purchasing of goods and services outside the country in which a
company is located. Generally offsourcing takes place in low-cost
countries.

Offshoring
The production of goods and services outside the country in which a
company is located. Generally offshoring takes place in low-cost
countries. It is also known as ‘de-localization’.

Options
The ability to make an investment with the possibility to pull out with
minimum costs.
In the financial sector an option is materialized by a tradeable
instrument that allows the investor to exercise its full investment if the
conditions are favorable or not to exercise if the conditions are not
favorable.
In the non financial world options are called ‘real options’ and consist
of making a minimum investment with the option of pulling out if the
conditions are not favorable.

Organizational culture
The set of values, beliefs and behavioral norms that are pre-dominant
in an organization.

Organizational fit
The ability for two organizations in an alliance, a merger or an
acquisition to synchronise their structures, sytems and processes.

Organizational processes
The way decisions are made and actions are controlled in an
organization: processes can be bureaucratic, mechanistic,
participative, top-down, bottom-up etc.

Organizational structure
The way the chain of command, the roles and functions are defined in
an organization. An organization can have a centralized or
decentralized structure, flat or hierarchical structure, structure by
functions, by products, by country or matrix structures.

Piggybacking
The practice for large multinational firms to help their smaller sub-
contractors or suppliers to set operations close to their own foreign
investments.

Plant competencies
Are the sets of know-how and technical capabilities of a plant.

Pre-acquisition process
The process by which the decision to acquire is made, the acquisition
target selected and the valuation and negotiation conducted.

Political power
Political power is the ability of one person or group of people to
influence government.

Post-acquisition process
The process by which an acquisition is integrated after the deal has
been signed. Also referred to as the ‘Post Merger Integration’.

Power distance
A dominant social value in a group or a society by which group
members accept authority. In a high power distance society one is
obedient and respectful of leaders while in a low power distance one
can openly challenge the views of the leader.

Preservation mode of integration
A mode of post-merger integration that consists of keeping the
acquired company autonomous from the acquiring company.
Procurement
The purchase of good and services.

Professional culture
The dominant values, beliefs and norms that members of a profession
share. Examples are medical culture, engineering culture, accounting
culture and academic culture.

Project valuation
The techniques used to calculate the return or the price of an
projected investment. Discounted cash flow is the most used
valuation technique.

Quantum computing
Computers using quantum bits, or qubits, that can be zero, one or a
mixture of zero and one (superposition) that enables extremely quick
processing – calculations that are not possible using conventional.

Real option
See Options above.

Regionalization
The concentration of the international expansion of a company in a
particular region of the world.

Regional headquarters
Are offices based in regions in order to support and control activities
of local subsidiaries of global firms.

Representative offices
A limited form of implantation in a foreign country. In a representative
office people make contacts, collect information and negotiate
contracts but do not sign nor implement the contracts.

Reservation price
In a negotiation the economic limit above which a buyer will not buy,
or below which the seller will not sell.

Retention
Is the way global firms encourage the loyalty of local staff through
good career prospects and ‘fair treatment’ instead of financial
compensation.

Reverse auction
A process by which potential buyers of goods or services invite
potential sellers to bid online in a given time frame.

Roles
Definition of the position, the task and the responsibilities that a
person has within an organization.

Sharing agenda
When partners in a strategic alliance are primarily motivated to
maximize efficiency in sharing certain elements of the value chain
through economies of scale and scope.

Scenarios
The descriptions of possible anticipated future states of affairs.

Segmentation
The division of a market or a business into sub-components that
share similar features. Examples are the division of consumers by
income levels.

Silent languages
The non-verbal expression of opinions, emotions and decisions. Silent
languages are an important mode of expression in certain societies
and for people external to that society it becomes critical to
understanding the meaning of physical gestures and facial
movements that express opinions, emotions, decisions.
Skills
The know-how that an individual possesses in the accomplishment of
their tasks.

Social Network
For sociologists a social network is a group of individuals that are
connected to each other. Recently, websites like Facebook, Twitter
or Linkedin are platforms that connect people via the internet.

Socialisation
The process by which newcomers in a group or an organization is
initiated to the norms, values and practices of the group.

Socially responsible investing (SRI)
Investment in companies that are respectful of the environment and
human rights.

Sprinkler model
The simultaneous launch of a new product in all markets.

Stand Alone value
The value of an acquisition calculated without the potential synergies
that the acquisition may bring. If the acquired company is listed on a
stock market, the stand alone value is the market value. Alternatively
the stand alone value has to be calculated by the classical valuation
techniques: discounted cash flow, net assets, comparables, etc.

Strategic exposure
The way competitive advantage of a firm can deteriorate or be
enhanced owing to the direct or indirect impact of a change in
currency value.

Strategic fit
In an alliance or an acquisition, strategic fit is where the parties
engaged have compatible objectives and are committed to the
success of the association.

Sub–optimization
The negative or lower economic performance resulting from one or
more decisions to ignore the overall effect on a sytem. An example of
sub-optimization would be to adopt a global price while ignoring the
adverse effect it could have in different markets that have different
demand curves.

Sustainable development
Development that meets the needs of the present without
compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own
needs.

Symbiotic mode of integration
A mode of post-merger integration that consists of first keeping the
acquired company autonomous from the acquiring company and
progressively integrating the functions for which real synergies exist.

Synergies value
The calculation of the additional value brought in as a result of a
merger, an acquisition or an alliance by the integration of the entities
concerned.

Tacit knowledge
Knowledge that cannot be codified.

Technology transfer
The process by which knowledge is transferred from one individual,
group or organization to another individual, group or organization.
Technology can be transferred through documents when the
knowledge is codified or though apprenticeship and collaboration
when the knowledge is tacit.

Tenure
The length of time in a given position.

Time Incompressibility
When a capability, in order to be replicated, needs as much time as
originally spent to create it. Time incompressibility makes imitation
difficult and gives the creator of the capability a first mover
advantage.

Transaction exposure
Transaction exposure is the risk that currency fluctuations impose on
existing contractual engagements and that may result in unexpected
losses.

Translation exposure
Translation exposure reflects the effects that changes in currency
values have on the financial statements of global firms, and therefore
on their profits and book valuation.

Transnational
Two meanings: 1) the meaning given by the United Nations to
designate multinational corporations; 2) an international organizational
design model described by Bartlett and Ghoshal that does not focus
on organizational structure but on management processes and
culture.

Triple Bottom Line
Measures the financial, social and environmental performance of a
company in three dimensions: profit, people and the planet.

Turn Key Project
A project in which the customer contracts out the whole project to a
specialised engineering firm or to a consortium of equipment
suppliers. The project manager takes care of completion at a fixed
price and delivery time and hands over the project to the customer
after the start-up phase. The project manager is financially
responsible for the whole amount of the contract.

Uncertainty avoidance
Uncertainty avoidance occurs when risk taking, change, ambiguity
and deviance are all negatively viewed when making decisions.

Valuation
Defines the financial method used to evaluate the value of an
economic entity, either a particular asset or a complete company.

Value chain
The set of activities needed for the creation, production and
commercialization of a product or service.

Value curve
The set of product or service attributes that customers value such as
performances, quality, responsiveness, price, convenience etc.

Value proposition
The set of products or services attributes such as performances,
quality, responsiveness, price, convenience etc. that companies
propose to customers.

Values
Set of beliefs and codes of conduct that a person or an organization
adheres to.

Venturing agenda
When partners in a strategic alliance are primarily motivated by a
desire to engage in collaboration to create a business.

Venture capital
A type of financing where private investors, investment banks,
financial institutions and corporations target start-up companies and
small businesses with long-term potential.

Washington Consensus
A series of prescriptions established in 1989 at the Institute of
International Economics Conference in Washington, DC that reflect
liberal policy recommendations for emerging countries.

Waterfall model
The sequential launch of a new product market after market.

Wholly-owned operations
An organization that is controlled entirely by another organization.

Window of opportunity
The timespan at the beginning of a market when the market is not
saturated and it is possible to enter without creating overcapacity.




1This   glossary is the sole responsibility of the authors
         Index of subjects



A
absorption mode of integration here, here
acculturation here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here
adjusted present value country risk (apv) here
advertising agency here, here, here
alliance here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here, here–
     here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here
arbitrage here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
arbitrage benefits here, here, here
asymmetric development here, here, here, here, here

B
back office here, here, here, here–here, here
best practices here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here,
    here, here, here, here, here, here, here
blockchain here, here–here, here
born digital here, here, here–here
born global here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here,
    here
BOT (build, operate and transfer) here, here
bottom of the pyramid here–here, here, here
bribe here–here, here, here, here, here–here
brics here–here, here, here, here, here–here
business etiquette here, here–here
business strategy here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here

C
cage distance framework here, here, here–here
californization here, here, here
capabilities fit here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here
career plan here, here, here
centre of excellence here
child labour here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here
clusters here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here,
    here–here, here, here, here, here
co–location here, here–here, here–here
combination here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here,
    here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here
comparative advantage here–here, here, here, here, here
compensation here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here–here,
    here–here, here
constellations here, here–here, here
convergence here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here,
    here, here, here, here
corporate culture here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here
corporate social responsibility (csr) here, here, here
corporate strategy here, here, here, here, here
corruption here–here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here,
    here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here,
    here, here, here, here
cost leadership here, here, here–here, here, here, here
cost of capital adjustment (cca) here, here–here
country ‘diamond’ here, here
country life cycle here, here, here
country risk analysis here, here, here, here, here, here–here
country stock market beta here
covid–19 here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here, here, here–
    here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here,
    here–here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here–here, here
covid–19 green recovery here
crosslisting here, here, here, here, here, here
cryptocurrencies here, here–here, here
cultural distance here, here, here–here, here, here, here
cultural fit here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here–here
cultural heritage here, here, here
currency swaps here, here
customer value curve here, here, here
cybercrime here, here–here

D
death valley here, here, here–here, here–here, here
deglobalization here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here
differentiation here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here,
    here, here, here, here
digitally enabled organization here, here
digital space here, here
distribution function here, here
documentary credit here, here, here–here, here–here
due diligence here, here, here, here, here

E
economic cultures here, here, here, here
ecosystem here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here,
   here–here, here–here, here, here, here–here
electronic data interchange (edi) here, here, here
electronic marketplaces here, here
emerging countries champions here
emerging country here–here, here, here, here, here
entry modes here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here
environmental crisis here
ethics here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here–here, here,
    here, here, here, here–here
EU workers directive here
expatriates here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here–
    here, here–here, here, here, here
explicit knowledge here, here
export credit agencies here, here–here, here–here
externalization here, here
extractive agenda here, here, here–here

F
fair process here, here, here
first mover here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here
foreign direct investment here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
forward contracts here–here, here, here
franchise here–here, here, here–here, here–here
front office here–here, here, here

G
global/multi–local mapping here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here
global account here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here
global business strategy here, here
global capability index here, here, here
global companies here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here,
   here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here,
   here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
global corporate strategy here, here, here
global hub here, here, here–here
global industries here, here, here, here, here, here
global integration here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here
globalization here–here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here,
   here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here,
   here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here,
   here, here–here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here,
   here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here,
   here–here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here,
   here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here, here, here, here,
   here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here,
   here–here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here–here
global leaders development here
global managers here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here, here
global open innovation here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here
global positioning here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here
global revenue index here, here–here, here, here
global solution selling here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here
global talent competitiveness here, here–here, here, here, here, here
global warming here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here
grand tour here–here, here–here
green recovery here–here, here

H
hedging here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here
hierarchy of needs here, here–here, here
holocracy here, here, here–here
hub here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–
    here, here, here, here, here, here–here
human rights here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here, here–here,
    here, here, here

I
incentives here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here, here, here,
    here, here, here
individualism here–here, here, here, here, here
individualized corporation here, here–here, here
industry analysis here, here, here–here
industry culture here, here
innovation here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–
    here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here,
    here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here,
    here–here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here,
    here, here–here
innovation outposts here, here–here
institutional voids here, here, here, here–here
integration process here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here
intellectual property here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here–here
interface management here, here
internal stickiness here, here, here
international divisions here
international product life cycle here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here
internet of things here–here, here–here, here–here
isolated subsidiaries here, here–here

J
joint venture here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here–
    here, here–here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here,
    here, here–here, here–here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here–here, here
joint venture decay here, here, here, here
joint venture for market entry here, here, here, here

K
knowledge management here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here, here–
   here, here
knowledge sourcing here
knowledge transfer here, here, here, here, here, here

L
leading and lagging here, here, here, here
leapfrog here
learning alliances here, here, here–here, here, here, here–here
licensing here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here,
    here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here
local adaptation here, here, here, here, here, here
localization here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here,
    here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here, here,
    here, here, here, here, here
local managers here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here
location here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here,
    here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here–here,
    here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
logistics here, here–here, xlv, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here,
    here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here,
    here–here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here

M
macroeconomic indicators here, here
marketing positioning here, here, here–here
market opportunities here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here
market segmentation here, here
matrix here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here–
   here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here–here, here
megacities here, here, here
mentoring here, here, here–here
metanational here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here
middle class here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here–here
middle–class effect here, here, here–here, here
missions here, here
modularization here, here
multinational companies here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here,
   here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here

N
national/ethnic culture here
netting here, here, here, here
network architecture here, here, here
networked organization here, here, here, here

O
OEM here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here–here, here–here
offshoring here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here–here
offsourcing here, here, here
options here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here,
    here, here, here
organizational culture here, here, here, here, here–here
organizational fit here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here
organizational processes here, here, here–here
organizational structure here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here,
    here–here, here–here, here–here, here, here
P
pace of entry here, here–here, here, here, here
pestel here
piggybacking here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here
plant competencies here, here
platform here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here,
    here–here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here–here
political partner here–here, here
post–acquisition process here–here, here
post–merger integration here, here, here
power distance here–here, here–here, here–here, here
pre–acquisition process here–here, here
preservation mode of integration here, here
procurement here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here, here, here,
    here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here–here,
    here–here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here, here
professional culture here, here
project valuation here, here, here–here, here

R
real option here, here, here
regional headquarters here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here,
    here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here
regionalization here, here, here
relocation here, here–here, here, here–here, here–here
remote teams here
remote working here, here, here–here, here
representative offices here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
retention here, here, here, here, here
roles here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here–here,
    here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here

S
scenarios here, here–here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here–here
segmentation here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here, here
sharing agenda here, here
silent language here–here, here, here–here
skills here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here,
     here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here–here,
     here, here–here, here–here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here, here, here, here
smart factory here–here, here–here
socialization here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here
socially responsible investment (sri) here
sprinkler model here, here, here
stand–alone value here, here
strategic exposure here, here, here, here
strategic fit here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here–here
strategic role here, here
sub–optimization here, here, here
sustainability here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here–here, here,
   here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here
sustainable development goals (sdgs) here, here, here
symbiotic mode of integration here, here
synergies value here, here

T
tacit knowledge here–here, here
technology scouting here
tenure here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here
transaction exposure here, here–here, here, here
translation exposure here, here, here, here, here
transnational here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here,
     here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here, here,
     here, here
transparency international (ti) here, here, here
triple bottom line here, here–here
turnkey project here, here, here, here

U
Ukraine war here, here, here, here, here, here, here
uncertainty avoidance here–here, here–here, here–here, here

V
valuation here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here, here, here, here,
    here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here
value chain here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here,
    here, here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here–here,
    here, here, here, here
value curve here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here
value proposition here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here–here,
    here, here, here
venturing agenda here, here, here
virtual assignments here, here–here, here

W
WACC (Weighted adjusted cost of capital) here, here–here
waterfall model here, here, here
web 2.0 here, here, here–here
wholly owned operations here, here, here
window of opportunity here–here, here, here–here, here, here
work from anywhere (WFA) here, here
         Index of names



A
Aaker, D here
Abida, Rib here
Ablett, Jonathan here
Ackenhusen, Mary here
Adil, Asif here, here
Adler, Nancy here–here, here
Aguilar, Frank here, here, here, here
Aharens, Nathaniel here
Akadar, Adhwin, here
Albert, Michel here, here, here, here–here
Albuquerque, Tulio here, here
Alexander, Marcus here, here
Allen, Thomas here, here, here, here, here
Almodóvar, Paloma here
Altman, Steven here, here
Ambos, Bjorn here, here
Ammer, John here
Andersen, Torben here
Anderson, Erin here
Anderson, Kim here
Anderson, Terry here
Ansoff, Igor here, here, here–here
Anwar Habiba here
Arvidsson, Niklas here, here
Ariño, Africa here
Ashkenas, Ron here
Arnold, David here
Asin, Amy here
Asmussen, Christian here
Attali, Jacques here
Augier, Mie here
Austin, J vii, here, here
Awaysheh, Amrou here, here
B
Baden, Fuller, C here
Bader, T here
Bailey William here
Baker, M here, here
Baker, Wayne here
Banalieva, Elitsa here
Banerjee, Neela here
Barkema, Harry here–here
Barnett, Carole here
Barnevick, Percy here
Barney, J here, here
Barsoux, Jean–Louis here, here, here, here
Barth, K here, here, here
Bartlett, Christopher here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here,
    here–here
Bartmess, A here
Barton, D here, here
Bastian, Caroline here, here
Battilana, Julie here, here
Bazigos, M here–here
Benavente, Jose Miguel here
Beneviste, Guy here
Berck, Jonathan here
Berger, Peter here, here, here, here–here
Berger, S here
Berggren, C here
Berry, Heather here
Besanko, David here, here
Besouri, Christopher here
Bettis, Richard here, here–here
Beugelsdijk, Sjoerd here
Bhattacharyya, Asit here, here, here
Biver, Jean–Claude here–here
Birkinshaw, Arnold here
Birkinshaw, Julian here, here–here, here, here
Bjorkman, Ingmar here
Bleeke, Joel here–here
Bloch, Nicolas here
Bloom, Helen here
Bode, Christiane here, here
Boele, Richard here
Bolt, Olivia here
Borcuch, Artur here, here
Boutellier, Roman here, here
Brake, Terence here
Brammer, Stephen here
Branicki, Layla here
Brett, Jeanne here, here–here
Brewer, Thomas here, here
Brodbeck, Felix here
Brown, Lester here, here, here
Brusoni, S here
Buckley, Peter here, here, here, here
Budhwar, Pawan here
Bughin, J here–here
Burbano, Vanessa here, here
Burns, Jennifer here

C
Cadbury, A here, here, here
Cadot, Olivier here
Campbell, Andrew here–here, here–here, here
Cannice, Mark here
Capron, Laurence here, here–here
Carr, Chris here
Carrick, Anne Marie here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
Casanova, Lourdes here, here
Casson, Mark here, here
Castells, Manuel here, here
Cave, Bill here
Cavusgil, Tamer here, here
Cennamo, Carmel here
Cerny, Keith here
Chaddick, Brad here–here
Chattopadhyay, Atava here, here, here
Chen, Guoli here, here, here
Chen, Yougan here, here
Chenh, Simon here
Cheng, Yang here
Chesbrough, Henry here
Chetty, Sylvie here
Chiesa, Vittoria here
Chhokar, Jagdeep here
Chi, Tailan here
Chu, Chi, Ning, here
Chui, M here–here
Chung, Peter here
Choudhury, Prithwiraj here, here
Cirjevskis, Andrej here
Cladderton, Lisa here
Ciarlante, Deana
Clyde, Smith, Deborah here
Collis, David here
Coltman, Tim here
Connell, Julia here–here
Connely, Catherine here, here–here, here
Contractor, Farok here, here, here
Coviello, Nicole here–here, here
Cowking, Philippa here
Coyle, Donald here
Cramer, Jacqueline here
Crane, Andrew here, here, here, here
Crawford, Robert here
Cuervo–Cazurra, Alvaro here
Cunha, Olao here
Cunningham, Mark here
Cushman, John here
Cuypers, Ilya here

D
Danis, Wade here
Daher, Nick here
Dathe, Tracy here
Daugherty, Paul here
Dastmalchian, Ali here
Davidson, William here, here–here
Davis, Stanley here
Dawar, Niraj here, here
de Bettignies, Henri, Claude here, here
de la Torre, Jose here
de Meyer, Arnoud here, here–here, here, here, here, here–here
De Smet, Aaron here, here
Decarli, Massimiliano here
Decreton, Benoit here, here–here, here, here
Delmas, Magali here, here
Deloumeaux, Lydia here
Demarzo, Peter here
DeMonaco, Lawrence here
Deng Xiao Ping here
Dent, Stephen here–here
DePamphilis, Donald here
Devinney, Timothy here–here, here
Devlin Clarian here
Dewhurst, Martin here–here
Dhanaraj, C here
Donalson, Thomas here, here
Doherty, Robert here
Dore, Ronald here, here, here, here–here
Doremus, Paul here, here
Dorfman, Peter here
Dowling, Peter here
Doz, Yves here, here–here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here–here,
    here–here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here–here
Dragonetti, Nicolas here–here
Dranove, D here
Dunchin, Faye here
Dunfee, Thomas here, here
Dunning, John here, here, here, here, here, here–here
Dyer, Jeffrey here
E
Eccles, Robert here–here
Edstrom, Anders here, here
Eiteman, D here, here
Edward, Ron here
Eizaguirre, Almudena here
Eldar, Ofer here, here
Elkington, John here
Engels, Friedrich here, here
Engle, Allen here
Enrique, Luiz here
Erdmenger, Christoph here
Ernst, David here, here, here
Erns, Ricardo here
Eun, Cheol here, here
Evans, Paul here, here, here, here, here, here
Evenett, Simon here, here

F
Fadiman, Jeffrey here, here
Falcao, Horacio here–here
Fang, Tony here, here
Farndale, Elaine here
Farooq, Sami here
Farrell, Diana here, here
Faulkner D here
Felter, Claire here, here
Fender, Michel here
Ferdows, Kasra here–here, here, here
Festing, Marion here
Fisher, Roger here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here
Flamant, Anne–Claire here
Florescu, Elizabeth here–here
Francis, S here, here, here
Frangos, Jean Marc here, here
Franko, Larry here
Frankopan, Peter here
Fraser, Jane here–here, here
Freeling, Anthony here, here–here
Freeman, S here, here
Friedheim, Cyrus here
Friedman, Lisa here, here
Friedman, Thomas here
Frieman, Milton here
Fukuyama, Francis here, here, here, here

G
Gahuri, Pervez here
Galbraith, Jay here, here
Ganson, Brian here
García–Canal, Esteban here
García–Feijoo, Maria here
Gasman, Olivier here
Gates, Bill and Melinda here
Gatignon, Hubert here, here
Gawer, Annabelle here–here
Gee, Francesca here, here
Geertz, Clifford here, here
Geringer, M here, here–here
Gersh, Ulrich here
Ghadar, Fariboz here
Ghauri, Perez here, here, here
Ghemawat, Pankaj here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here, here, here–here
Ghoshal, Sumantra here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here,
   here–here
Ghosn, Carlos here
Giddy, Ian here
Glen, Jack here
Glenn, Jerome here–here
Gompers, Paul here–here
Gongming, Qian here
Goodwin Jason here
Goold, M here
Gravelle, Jane here, here
Greenwald, Gleen here, here
Gregersen, Hal here, here, here
Greve, Henrich here, here, here
Gröschl, Stefan here
Guey, Huey Li here, here
Guillén, Mauro here, here
Guisinger, Stephen here
Gupta, Anil here, here
Gwartney, James here

H
Habeck, Max here, here
Hadjikhani, Amjad here, here
Haigh, Ronald here, here
Halevy, Tammy here
Hall, Edward here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here
Hamel, Gary here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here
Hampden Turner, Charles here, here, here
Hammond, Allen here
Hanges, Paul here
Hankinson, Graham here–here, here
Harbison, John here
Harding, D here
Harrigan, Kathryn here, here
Harris, Bryan here, here
Harris, Jonathan here–here
Harris, Lloyd here
Harter, Jim here–here
Harvey, M here
Harzing, Anne here
Haspeslagh, Philippe here, here, here–here
Hawawini, Gabriel here, here, here, here
Hayton, J here
Hazan, Eric here
He, Honwei here
Hebert, Louis here–here
Heblich, Stephan here
Hedlund, Gunnar here
Heenan, D here, here, here
Heike, Fabig here
Heilbroner, Robert here
Helmold, Marc here
Henisz, Witold here–here
Hennart, Jean Francois here, here–here
Hennebel, Ludovic here, here
Herbig, Paul here, here
Heron, Randall here
Hess, David here, here
Hesterly, William here
Heywood, Suzanne here–here, here
Hill, Charles here
Hitt, Michael here
Hofstede, Gert here, here–here, here–here, here, here
Hogan, Harold here
Holliday, Charles here
Holstein, Williams
Hopkins, Raymond here, here
Hoskisson, Robert here
Hoque, Nazamul here
House, Robert here
Howell Lieweyn here–here
Ho–Won Jeong here
Hsieh, Tsun, yan here, here, here
Huang, Yascheng here–here
Humes, Samuel here
Hummel, Florian here
Huntington, Samuel here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here
Husted, Bryan here, here
Huston, Larry here
Hwang, Peter here–here
Hyde, Dana here, here

I
Ifzal, Ali here–here
Inglehart, Ronald here
Inkpen, Andrew here–here, here
Ireland Duane here
Isono, James here

J
Jackson, Terence here
Jacobides, Michael here, here
Jasperen, Frederick here
Jaruzelski, Barry here
Javidan, Mansour here
Jeffrey, William here, here
Jemison, William here, here, here, here
Jenkins, Rhys here, here
Jensen, Karina here
Jin, Ami here
Joachimsthaler, Erich here
Johansen, John here
Johanson, Jan here–here, here, here–here, here, here–here
Jokinen Tiina here, here–here
Jones, Geoffrey here–here
Jones, Jeannette here
Jordan, Lisa here, here

K
Kaetzler, Backy here
Kaha, Harun here
Kandemir, Destan here
Kang, Jun, Koo here
Karch, Nancy here
Kaplan, Norton here
Karmokolias, Yannis here
Katsoulakos, P here, here
Kaufmann, Daniel here, here
Kawelis, Pavos here
Keller, William here, here
Kelly, Nataly here, here, here–here
Kennedy, Robert here
Kess, Pekka here
Kessler, Benjamin here
Kets de Vries, Manfred here, here
Khanna, Tarun here–here, here–here, here, here, here, here–here
Kharas, Homi here, here, here
Khou, Julia here
Kiessling, Timothy here
Kim, Chan here, here, here, here, here
Kim, Deckman here
Kim, Jung Kwan here
Kim, Soonhee here
Kinnumen, Tuomo here
Kiss, Andrea here
Kitching, John here, here, here
Klincewicz, Krzysztof here
Klueter, Thomas here
Knight, Gary here–here
Kogut, Bruce here–here, here, here
Kolk, Ans here, here
Koller, Thimothy here, here
Kordestani, Kameron here
Koontz, Harold here
Kostova, Tatiana here, here
Kotabe, Masaaki here
Kotler, Philip here
Kremenyuk, Victor here
Krishna, L. N here, here, here
Kröger, Fritz here
Kuemmerle, Walter here
Kulatilaka, Nalin here–here
Kumar, Amit here, here
Kumar, Nirmalya here, here
Kundu, Summit here

L
Lahiri, Nandini here
Lanes, Kersten here
Lang, Austin here, here–here
Lange, Glenn, Marie here, here, here
Langlet, François here
Lanvin, Bruno here, here, here
Lasserre, Philippe here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here,
     here, here, here
Latukefu, Alopi here
Laurent, André here, here–here, here–here, here
Lavoie, Johanne here
Lawrence, Paul R here, here, here–here
Lawson, Robert here
Lazzarini, Sergio here
Leal, Donald here, here
Lee, Hyangsoo here, here, here, here, here
Lee, Matthew here, here
Lehmacher, Wolkgang here
Lehni Markus here, here, here
Leite, Carlos here, here
Lenin, Vladimir here
Lessard, Donald here, here, here, here–here
Leviagängas, Pekka here
Levi–Strauss, Claude here, here
Levitt, Theodore here–here, here
Lewis, Richard here, here
Lhabitant, F Serge here
Li, Chenguang here, here
Li, Jiantao here
Li, Lee here–here
Lieberman, Marvin here–here
Liesch, Peter here
Lindner, A here, here
Linhares, Joao here, here
Linnenluecke, Martina here
Liu, Ben here, here
Lloyd Reason, Lester here
Long, Gideon here
Lorenzoni, Gianni here
Lorsh, William here
Lowell, Bryan here–here
Luermann, Timothy here–here
Luk, S.T.K here
Luo, Yadong here–here
Luostarinen, Reijo here
Luyrens, J here, here, here
Lynn, Isabella here, here, here

M
Ma, Jieqiong here
Madura Jeff here
Malnight, Thomas here, here, here, here
Magdeleine, Jocelyn here
Mankin, Eric here
Magni Max here, here
Mamun, Abdulah here
Manyika J here
Marano, Valentina here
Marceto, Alonso here
Martin, Drew here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here
Marx, Karl here, here
Matten, Dirk here
Mauborgne, Reneé here–here, here, here, here, here
Mauro, Paolo here
McDougall, Patricia here
McKee, M here, here
McLaughlin, Kathleen here
McLuhan Marshall here, here–here
Mead, Margaret here
Medina, Danielle here
Mei, Jianping here
Melander, Erik here
Mellahi, Kamel here
Mendenhall, Mark here, here, here
Meng, B here
Mesquita, Louis here
Meyer, Erin here, here, here–here, here, here–here
Meyer, Klaus here, here
Meyer, Marshall here
Micklethwait, John here
Middleton, Stuart here
Midgley, D here, here
Miguel, J xxxviii
Mikko, Kosone here–here
Milberg, William here–here
Millar, Roderick here
Minkov, Michael here, here
Minor, S here
Miroux, Anne here, here
Mirza, Hafiz here
Mischke, Jan et al here
Mitchell, D here
Mitchell, Will here–here
Mitroff, Ian here
Mol, Michael here
Moffett, M here
Monaghan, Sinhead here, here, here
Monteiro, Felipe here–here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here,
    here, here, here, here, here–here, here
Montgomery, Cynthia here
Montgomery, David here–here, here
Moore James here
Morley, Micael here
Moro, Sergio here–here, here, here
Mowla, Mohamad Masrulul here
Mudambi, Ram here, here, here, here
Musacchio, Aldo here

N
Narasimhan, Laxman here
Narayandas, Das here
Narayanswamy, Subbu here
Narula, Rashneesh here
Neeley, Tsedal here, here
Newenham–Kahindi, Alosius here
Nichols, Martha here, here, here
Niron, Hashai here, here
Noda, Tono here–here
Novela, Selly here
Novicevic, Miroland here
Nugent, C here, here

O
O’Loughlin, Emily here
Odziemkowska, Kate here
Ohmae, Kenichi here, here, here, here, here, here–here
Olshavsky, Richard here
Onofre, Renato here, here
Oppenheim, Jeremy here
Ormiston, C here
Oviatt, Benjamen here
Oxley, Joanne here

P
Palepu, Krishna here
Parker, Philip here, here, here
Parsons, A here, here
Patel, Dhiren here
Patton, Bruce here, here, here
Pauly, Louis here, here
Pearce, Robert here, here, here
Paauwe,Jaap, here
Peĺissié du Rausas, Matthieu here
Peng, Mike here, here, here
Perkins, Helen here
Perlmutter, Howard here
Pernia, Ernesto here
Perry, Tod here, here
Philips, Dom here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
Pieper, Jan here
Piketty, Thomas here, here
Pilat,Borcuch, Mardalena here
Pimentel, Marta here
Pinilla, Vincente here
Pinson, Christian here–here
Piscitello, Lucia here
Piskorsi, Nikolaj here, here
Pitta, Fabio here
Plas, Geraldine here, here
Pope, Jeremy here, here
Porter, Michael here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here,
    here–here, here, here
Prado–Wagner, Carmen here
Prahalad, C. K here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here,
    here, here, here, here, here
Prashantam, Shameen here
Probert, Joselyn here
Prud’homme, C here
Pucik, Vladimir here, here, here
Puranam, Phanish here, here, here, here
Purshe, William here

Q
Qian, Zhengming here
Qualls, William here
Quelch, John here, here–here, here

R
Raiffa, Howard here, here
Raleigh, Clionadh here
Ramaswamy, Kannan here–here
Rangan, Subramanian here, here, here, here, here, here, here
Rastogi, Vaishall here
Redding, Gordon here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here
Reed Hall, Mildred here
Reich, Robert here, here, here
Reinert, Uwe here
Reinhart, Forest L here, here, here
Rennie, Michael here, here
Resnick, Bruce here, here
Retchman, René here
Reuer, Jeffrey here, here
Ricardo, David here, here, here, here, here
Ricks David here, here, here
Rieger, F here
Riesenbeck, Hajo here, here–here
Rigman, Tom here
Ritzer’s George here
Robertson, Roland here, here, here
Robinson, William here, here
Rodrik, Dani here, here, here, here, here, here
Rogers, Jerry here–here
Ronen, Simcha here, here, here
Root, Franklin here, here
Rosenweig, Philip here
Ross, Jerry here
Rottenberg, Stephanie here, here
Rouse Ted here
Rowley, Tim here
Roxburg, C here, here
Rudnicki, Jeff here
Rugman, Alan here, here, here
Russ, Meir here

S
Saari, D here
Sachs, Jeffrey here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here
Said, Rémi here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
Sakkab Nabil, here
Salacuse, Jeswald here–here, here, here
Salehyan, Idean here
Salle, Robert here
Samek, Robert here
Sane, P here
Santos, Jose here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here
Sarala, M here
Shenkar, S here, here, here
Schaefer, Scott here
Schein, Edgard here, here
Schipani, Andres here, here, here
Schmidheiny, Stephan here
Schneider, Suzan here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here
Schroder, Bill here
Schütte, Hellmut here, here
Schwartz, Gordon here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here–here, here
Schwartz, Kevin here
Scullion, Hugh here
Sheffield, C here, here, here
Shenkar, Oded here, here, here
Shih, Stan here, here
Shipilov, Andrew here, here–here
Sigala, Marianna here
Sinatra, Alessandro here
Singer, Mark here–here
Singh, Jasjit here, here, here, here, here, here
Singh, Harbir here, here, here
Singh, Satwinder here, here, here
Sinha, Jant here
Sklair, Leslie here, here
Smith, Craig here, here
Smith, Kenneth here
Smith, Shi here–here
Smit, Sven here
Soubbotina, Talyana here–here, here
Spadini, Alessandro here, here
Spar, Deborah here, here, here
Spekeman, Robert here, here, here
Staack, Volker here
Stahl, Gunther here–here, here, here, here–here, here
Stalk, Georges here, here
Starace, Francesco here–here
Steen, Mattheew here
Stefanini, Marco here, here–here, here
Steinhubl, A here
Stevens, Charles here
Steward, Pamela here
Stiglitz, Joseph here
Stiles, Philip here
Stonehill, Arthur here
Stopford, John here, here, here, here–here, here, here
Stoyan, Tanev here, here
Stumpf, Siegfried here
Sun, Tzu here
Sunshine, Russell here, here, here
Szulanski, Gabriel here

T
Tahilyani, Naveen here
Taleb, Nassim here, here
Tallman, Steven here–here
Tamboto, Eddy here
Tan, Ja here, here
Tanev Stoyan here, here
Tang, Jin’han here
Tanzi, Vito here, here
Tao, Z here
Tashman, Peter here
Taylor, William here, here
Teece, David here
Tell, Fredrich here
Terwiesch, Christian here
Thill, George here
Tichy, Noel here
Tippmann, Esther
Toulan, Omar here–here, here, here
Träm, M
Trevor, Jonathan here
Tribewalla, Vikas here–here
Trompenaars, Alfons here, here–here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here
Träm, Michael here
Tung, Rosalie here, here, here

U
Uddin, Mohammad Rahim here
Ury, William here
Usunier, Jean Claude here

V
Vahlne, Jan, Erik here, here, here
Vaiman, Vlad here
Vaish, Paresh here, here
Valla, Jean Paul here
Van de Ven, A here
Van Ruysseveldt, Joris here
Van Tulder, Rob here, here, here, here
Vance, C here
Vanhonacker, Wilfried here–here
Varma, Suvir here
Vereecke, Andreé here–here, here
Vermeulen, Freek here–here
Vernon, Raymond here–here, here, here
Vestring, Till here
Viallet, Claude here, here, here
Viscio, Albert here–here, here
Vitaro, Richard here
Von Krogh, George here, here
von Zedtwitz, Maximilian here, here

W
Wack, Pierre here
Walker, Thomas here
Wallerstein, Immanuel here, here
Wang, Anne here
Wang, Chen Tang here–here, here
Wang, Chuanfu here–here
Wang, Haiyan here
Wang, Peter here–here
Wang, Zhi here
Watson, George here
Watts, Philip here
Weaven, Scott here, here
Weber, Max here, here, here
Weerawardena, Jay here
Wei Shang, Jin here, here
Weihrich, Heinz here
Weiman, Jens here
Welch, Lawrence here, here
Wells, Louis here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here
Welters, C here
Weerawardena, Jay here
Wheeler, David here, here
White, J here
Whitley, Richard here, here, here, here, here
Wild, John here
Wild, Kenneth here
Willes, Pierre here
Williamson, John here, here, here–here
Williamson, Peter here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
Wilson Dominic here
Wilson, Jared here
Wilson, James here
Wilson, Keeley here, here, here
Wilson, Thomas here
Winer, Russ here
Witt, Michael here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here
Wong Rieger, D here, here, here
Woo, H. S here
Wooldridge, A here
Wouter, Ahina here
Wouters, Olivier here, here, here
Wright, Patrick here
Wurster, Thomas here, here

X
Xavier, Carlos here, here
Xie, Zhenzen here
Xin Li here, here, here
Xu, Yi here, here

Y
Yahiaoui, Dorra here
Yamagushi, Takeo here, here
Yandle, Bruce here
Yang, Jie here
Yeung, Arthur here
Yip, George here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here
Yoshino, Michael here, here, here, here
Youval, Alsmon here, here

Z
Zaheer, S here, here
Zahra, S here
Zainulbhai, A here, here
Zeutchel, U here, here
Zhang, Ruimin here, here–here, here–here
Zhao, H here
Zhengming, Q here
Zhou, N here
Zhuang, X here, here
Zoubir, Y here
Zulkarnain, Z here
         Index of organizations
         and companies



A
AAFLA here
Accenture here, here, here, here
Acer here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here
Asian Development Bank (ADB) here
Adidas here
Advent here, here, here, here, here, here, here
Air France here
Airbus here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here
Airtel here, here
Alcatel here, here–here, here
Alcatel-Lucent here, here–here
Alfa here
Alicorp here
Allergan here, here, here
Allianz here
Alstom here
Alza here, here, here
Amazon here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here,
     here, here, here, here
Amnesty International here, here–here, here, here
ANZAM (Australian and New Zealand Academy of Management) here
Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) here, here
Apple here, here-here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here,
     here–here, here–here, here–here, here, here, here
Asahi here
Asea Brown Boveri (ABB) here
Association Of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) here, here, here, here
Aspen Institute here
AT&T here, here
AtKearney here
Aventis here, here
B
Bangladesh here, here, here–here, here, here, here
Basf here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here
Bayer here, here, here, here, here, here
Bayer Monsanto here
Benetton here, here–here, here
Bharti Airtel here
Bhopal here
Bank for International Settlements (BIS) here, here, here, here
BlaBlacar here, here–here
Blackstone here
Boeing here, here, here
Bombardier here, here
Booz Allen here, here
Boston Consulting Group here, here, here, here, here, here–here
BRF here
Bridgestone here
British East India Company here
Brookfield here, here
British Telecom (BT) here, here, here–here, here
Business Impact here
BYD here, here, here–here

C
Canon here, here
Cap Gemini here, here
Cargill here, here
Carrefour here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
Caux Roundtable
CDC Capital Partners here
Centre for Asian Business Cases here
Charoen Pokphand here, here
Chrysler here, here
Ciba Geigy here
Cinven here
Cisco here–here, here, here, here
Citibank here, here, here, here, here, here
Cochlear here, here, here
Compagnie Française d’Assurance pour le Commerce Extéieur (COFACE) here
Coca-Cola (Coke) here
Colgate here, here
Columbia here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here
Cornhill here
Corning here, here
Corpwatch here, here, here, here
Cosan here, here
Council of Europe here

D
Dabhol here, here, here
Daewoo here, here
Daimler here, here, here
Daimlerchrysler here
Dangote Cement here
Danone here, here, here
Dell here, here
Deloitte here
Deutsche Telecom here
Disneyland here, here

E
Earth Policy Institute here
Ebay here–here, here, here
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) here
ECGD (Export Credit Guarantee Department) here
European Economic Community, (EEC) here, here, here
Economic Intelligence Unit (EIU) here
Electrolux here, here, here, here–here, here–here
Embraer here, here
Enel here, here–here, here, here
Enron here, here, here, here
Ericsson here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here
Ernst & Young here, here, here
Essilor here, here, here–here
EssilorLuxottica here, here
Etisalat here, here, here–here
EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) here
Euromedia here
Euromoney here
Euromonitor here, here, here, here, here, here
European Foundation for Management Education (EFMD)
European Union (EU) here, here, here
Eximbank (Export-Import Bank) here

F
Facebook (Meta) here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) here
FCIA here
FEMSA here
Fiat here, here
Fiat-Chrysler here
Fitch here, here, here–here, here, here–here
Forrester here
Foster here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
Framatome here
France Telecom here
Francolor here
Fraser here–here, here
FreemarketsOnline here
Fuji Xerox here
G
Garments here
Gartner here, here
GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) here,here–here
Global Vaccine Alliance (GAVI) here, here
GE-Snecma here, here
Gemplus here, here–here
General Electric (GE) here, here, here, here, here
General Motors (GM) here, here–here, here
Global Compact here, here–here, here
GLOBE (Global Leadership and Organizational Behavior Effectiveness) here,here–here,here–
   here
Global Sullivan Principles here
Globe here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here,
   here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here
Golden Agri Resources here, here
Goodyear here, here
Google here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here,
   here, here
Greenpeace here–here
Gucci here, here

H
Haier here, here, here, here-here, here, here, here, here, here–here
Harvard Business School here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here,
   here–here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here
Heineken here
Helvetica Chemical here–here
Hewlett Packard (HP)
Holcim-Lafarge here, here
HSBC here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here
Huawei here, here, here, here–here, here, here
Human Rights Watch here
Hyundai here, here

I
IBM here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here,
    here, here–here, here–here, here
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) here
International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) here
International Finance Corporation (IFC) here, here
IKEA here, here, here–here, here
International Labor Organisation (ILO) here–here, here, here, here, here, here
IMD (International Institute for Management Development) here
IndoMedia here
Infosys here
INSEAD here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here, here,
    here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here,
    here–here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here,
    here
Institute For The Future (IFTF) here
Intel here, here, here, here, here, here, here
International Finance Corporation here, here
International Herald Tribune here
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) here, here
International Service Systems A/S (ISS) here, here, here
Isuzu here

J
Jardine Matheson here
JP Morgan here, here

K
Kennedy Round here
Kenya Flower Council here
Kyoto Treaty here

L
Lenovo here, here, here
Li & Fung here, here–here, here
Light Up The World (LUTW) here, here
Lockheed here
Lucent here, here–here, here
Lukoil here
LUTW here, here–here
LVMH here, here, here

M
3M here, here, here, here
Maastricht here
Marks & Spencer here
MAU here, here
McDonald here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here
McKinsey here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here–here,
    here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here–here,
    here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here
Mercado Libre here
Mercedes-Benz here
Mercosur here, here
Michelin here, here–here, here–here, here
Microsoft here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
Midland Bank here
Millennium project here, here–here, here–here
Miniwatts Marketing Group here
Mitsubishi here, here, here, here
Monsanto here, here, here
Moody’s here
MOSOP here
Motorola here, here, here, here
Merck Sharp and Dohme (MSD) here, here
N
National Intelligence Council (NIC) here
NEC here
Nestlé here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here,
   here, here–here, here, here, here
Nike here, here, here, here, here, here
Nissan here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here
Nokia here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here
Nortel here, here
North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) xli
Nummi here, here, here

O
OCP group here
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) here, here, here, here–
   here, here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here–here, here–here, here,
   here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here,
   here–here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here,
   here, here, here, here, here
Olam International here
Oracle here, here, here, here
Orange here, here–here
OtiS here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here
Oxford here–here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here–here, here, here, here,
   here, here, here–here

P
Panasonic here, here–here
Paris agreement on Climate Change
Petronas here
Peugeot here, here, here
Pew Center on Global Climate Change
Philips here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
Pirelli here
Pixtech here
Prince of Wales Business Leader Forum (PWBLF) here
PricewaterhouseCooper here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here
Procter & Gamble here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here

Q
Qualcomm here
Quinta do Vallado here, here–here, here

R
Ranbaxy here, here
Raytheon here
RCA here
Renault here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here–here, here
Renault Nissan here–here
Reuters here, here, here–here, here
Robina here
S
Saatchi here, here
Sabanci here
SADC here, here
Shangai Automobile Industrial Corporation (SAIC) here, here
Samsung here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here,
   here
SAP here, here, here–here, here–here
SASOL here
Sasol here
Saurer here
Schneider Electric here, here, here, here
Shell (Royal Dutch Shell) here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here,
   here, here, here, here, here
Siemens here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here,
   here, here
Smithkline and Beecham here–here
Snecma here, here, here
Sony here–here, here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here, here–here, here
South African Brewery here, here
Standard & Poor’s here
Star here, here, here, here, here, here
Starbucks here, here
Stefanini here, here–here, here
Sunna Design here, here
Suparicom here
Suzuki here
Swatch here, here–here, here
Swift here
Swire here

T
TAG Heuer here, here–here
Tata here
Tesco here, here, here, here
Teva here–here, here, here
Teva-Allergan here
The Economist, here
Thomson Reuters here
Time Warner here
Tokyo Round here
Total here, here, here
Toyo Ink here
Toyota here, here, here, here, here, here
Transparency International here–here, here–here, here, here, here–here
Transsion Holdings here
Treaty here, here–here, here, here, here, here–here
Tyco here

U
Uber here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here
UBS here
United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNEP) here–here, here, here,
    here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here,
    here–here, here
UN Environment Program (UNEP) here, here–here, here, here, here
UNESCO here, here, here, here–here, here, here
UNICEF here, here, here, here, here
Unilever here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here,
    here–here, here, here–here
Union Carbide here
United Nations (UN) here, here, here
Universal here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here
Unocal here, here
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) here
Uruguay Round here
US Fireman’s Fund here

V
Visa here, here, here
Vodafone here
Volkman here
Volkswagen here, here, here
Volvo here, here–here

W
Walmart here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here
Washington Consensus here, here
Westinghouse here, here
Whirlpool here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here
Wipro here
World Bank here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here–here, here,
   here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here–here, here,
   here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here
World Business Council for Sustainable Development here, here
World Economic Forum (WEF) here, here, here–here, here–here, here, here–here, here,
   here, here, here–here, here
World Resources Institute here, here, here, here, here
WPP Group, Young & Rubicam here, here, here–here
World Trade Organisation, (WTO) here, here, here, here–here, here, here, here, here, here,
   here, here, here
WWF (World Wide Fund for Nature) here, here, here

Z
Zain here, here
                                BLOOMSBURY ACADEMIC
                                 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
                         50 Bedford Square, London, WC1B 3DP, UK
                          1385 Broadway, New York, NY 10018, USA
                            29 Earlsfort Terrace, Dublin 2, Ireland

     BLOOMSBURY, BLOOMSBURY ACADEMIC and the Diana logo are trademarks of
                        Bloomsbury Publishing Plc

                             First published in Great Britain 2002
                                  This edition published 2023

                     Copyright © Philippe Lasserre, Felipe Monteiro 2023

Philippe Lasserre and Felipe Monteiro have asserted their right under the Copyright, Designs
               and Patents Act, 1988, to be identified as Authors of this work.

  For legal purposes the Acknowledgements constitute an extension of this copyright page.

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or
by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or any information
       storage or retrieval system, without prior permission in writing from the publishers.

Bloomsbury Publishing Plc does not have any control over, or responsibility for, any third-party
 websites referred to or in this book. All internet addresses given in this book were correct at
   the time of going to press. The author and publisher regret any inconvenience caused if
 addresses have changed or sites have ceased to exist, but can accept no responsibility for
                                       any such changes.

             A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library.

                        Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
                    Names: Lasserre, Philippe, author. | Monteiro, Felipe, author.
             Title: Global strategic management / Philippe Lasserre, Felipe Monteiro.
   Description: 5 edition. | New York, NY : Bloomsbury Academic, 2022. | Revised edition. |
                            Includes bibliographical references and index.
  Identifiers: LCCN 2022002004 (print) | LCCN 2022002005 (ebook) | ISBN 9781350932968
                          (paperback) | ISBN 9781350932951 (hardback) |
      ISBN 9781350932975 (epub) | ISBN 9781350932982 (pdf) | ISBN 9781350932999
   Subjects: LCSH: International business enterprises–Management. | Strategic planning. |
       Globalization–Economic aspects. Classification: LCC HD62.4 .L37 2022 (print) |
                     LCC HD62.4 (ebook) | DDC 658.4/012–dc23/eng/20220120
                       LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2022002004
                    LC ebook record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2022002005

                            ISBN:       HB: 978-1-3509-3295-1
                                         PB: 978-1-3509-3296-8
                                      ePDF: 978-1-3509-3298-2
                                      eBook: 978-1-3509-3297-5

                        Typeset by Integra Software Services Pvt. Ltd.
To find out more about our authors and books visit www.bloomsbury.com and sign up for our
                                        newsletters.
