COMPETITIVE
Books by Michael E. Porter


The Competitive Advantage of Nations (1990)

Competitive Advantage: Creating and Sustaining Superior
Pe$ormance (1985)

Cases in Competitive Strategy (1982)

Competition in the Open Economy (with R.E. Caves
and A.M. Spence) (1 980)

Interbrand Choice, Strategy and Bilateral Market Power ( 1 976)
COMPETITIVE
STRATEGY
Techniques for Analyzing
Industries and
Competitors

With a new Introduction




Michael E. Porter




THE FREE PRESS
THE FREE PRESS
A Division of Simon & Schuster Inc
1230 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY 10020

Copyright O 1980 by The Free Press
New introduction copyright O 1998 by The Free Press
All rights reserved,
including the right of reproduction
in whole or in part in any form.

First Free Press Edition 1980

T HE F REE P RESS and colophon are trademarks
of Simon & Schuster Inc.




Manufactured in the United States of America

62 61    60

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data

Porter, Michael E.
     Competitive strategy: techniques for analyzing industries and
  competitors: with a new introduction1 Michael E. Porter.
        p. cm. ..
     Originallypublished: New York: Free Press, c I980
     Includes bibliographical references and index.
     I. Competition. 2. Industrial management. I. Title.
  HD4 1 .P67 1998
  6 5 8 d c 21                                           98-9580
                                                             CIP

ISBN 0-684-84148-7
Contents

            Introduction
            Preface                                 xvii
            Introduction, 1980                      xxi
PART I General Analytical Techniques

CHAPTER 1   THE STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS OF INDUSTRIES     3
            Structural Determinants of the
              Intensity of Competition     5
            Structural Analysis and
              Competitive Strategy      29
            Structural Analysis and
              lndustry Definition    32
CHAPTER 2   GENERIC COMPETITIVE STRATEGIES           34
            Three Generic Strategies      35
            Stuck in the Middle     41
            Risks of the Generic Strategies    44
CHAPTER 3   A FRAMEWORK FOR COMPETITOR ANALYSIS      47
            The Components of Competitor
              Analysis      49
            Putting the Four Components
              Together-The Competitor
              Response Profile     67
            Competitor Analysis and
              Industry Forecasting     71
            The Need for a Competitor
              Intelligence System     71
vi                                                 CONTENTS

CHAPTER 4   MARKET SIGNALS                               75
            Types of Market Signals       76
            The Use of History in Identifying
              Signals     86
            Can Attention to Market Signals
              Be a Distraction?      87

            lndustry Instability: The Likelihood
              of Competitive Warfare         89
            CompetitiveMoves          91
            Commitment         100
            Focal Points       105
            A Note on Information and Secrecy         106
CHAPTER 6   STRATEGY TOWARD BUYERS AND SUPPLIERS        108
            Buyer Selection     108
            Purchasing Strategy     122

            Dimensions of Competitive Strategy         127
            Strategic Groups     129
            Strategic Groups and a Firm's
              Profitability    142
            Implications for Formulation
              of Strategy     149
            The Strategic Group Map as an
              Analytical Tool     152

            Basic Concepts in lndustry
              Evolution     157
            Evolutionary Processes      163
            Key Relationships in lndustry
              Evolution     184
PART I1 Generic Industry Environments



            What Makes an lndustry
             Fragmented?      196
Contents                                               vii

           Overcoming Fragmentation       200
           Coping with Fragmentation      206
           Potential Strategic Traps    210
           Formulating Strategy      213


           The Structural Environment     216
           Problems Constraining lndustry
             Development        221
           Early and Late Markets     225
           Strategic Choices      229
           Techniques for Forecasting     234
           Which Emerging lndustries to
             Enter     235

           Industry Change during Transition     238
           Some Strategic Implications of
             Transition       241
           Strategic Pitfalls in Transition  247
           Organizational Implications of
             Maturity       249
           lndustry Transition and the General
             Manager         252


           Structural Determinants of
              Competition in Decline      255
           Strategic Alternatives in Decline    267
           Choosing a Strategy for Decline      271
           Pitfalls in Decline    273
           Preparing for Decline      274

           Sources and Impediments to Global
             Competition       277
           Evolution to Global lndustries   287
           Competition in Global lndustries   291
           Strategic Alternatives in Global
             lndustries     294
                                                   CONTENTS

             Trends Affecting Global
               Competition      295
PART I11 Strategic Decisions
CHAPTER 14   THE STRATEGIC ANALYSIS OF VERTICAL
                INTEGRATION                             300
             Strategic Benefits and Costs of
                 Vertical lntegration     302
             Particular Strategic Issues in
                 Forward lntegration      315
             Particular Strategic Issues in
                 Backward lntegration        317
             Long-Term Contracts and the
                 Economics of Information        318
             Illusions in Vertical lntegration
                 Decisions      322

             Elements of the Capacity Expansion
               Decision      325
             Causes of Overbuilding Capacity    328
             Preemptive Strategies     335
CHAPTER 16   ENTRY INTO NEW BUSINESSES                  339
             Entry through Internal Development        340
             Entry through Acquisition     350
             Sequenced Entry       356




             Bibliography
             Index
             About the Author
Introduction




When Competitive Strategy was first published eighteen years ago, I
hoped that it would have an impact. There were reasons to hope, be-
cause the book rested on a body of research that had stood the test of
peer review, and the draft chapters had survived the scrutiny of my
MBA and executive students.
     The reception of the book and the role it has played in launch-
ing a new field, however, exceeded my most optimistic expectations.
Most business school students around the world are exposed to the
ideas in the book, invariably in core courses on policy or strategy,
but often in specialized elective courses on competitive strategy and
also in fields such as economics, marketing, technology manage-
ment, and information systems. Practitioners in both large and small
companies have internalized the ideas, as I learn from numerous
thoughtful letters, personal conversations, and now E-mails. Most
strategic consultants use the ideas in the book, and entire firms have
emerged to assist companies in employing them. Budding financial
analysts must read the book prior to certification.
     Competitive strategy, and its core disciplines of industry analy-
sis, competitor analysis, and strategic positioning, are now an ac-
cepted part of management practice. That a large number of
x                                                      INTRODUCTION

thoughtful practitioners have embraced the book as a powerful tool
has fulfilled a career-long desire to influence what happens in the
real world.
     Competitive strategy has also become an academic field in its
own right. Now rich with its own competing ideas, this field is
prominent among management researchers. It has also become a
thriving area of inquiry among economists. The extent and vitality
of the body of literature that traces in some way from the book,
whether pro or con, is enormously gratifying. The number of out-
standing scholars who are working in this field-some of whom I
have had the privilege of teaching, mentoring, and writing with-
has fulfilled my central aspiration of influencing the path of knowl-
edge.
     The re-issue of Competitive Strategy has led me to ponder the
reasons for the book's impact. They are clearer to me now with the
passage of time. Competition has always been central to the agenda
of companies, but it certainly did not hurt that the book came at a
time when companies all over the world were struggling to cope
with growing competition. Indeed, competition has become one of
the enduring themes of our time. The rising intensity of competition
has continued until this day, and spread to more and more countries.
Translations of the book in mainland China (1997) or into Czech,
Slovak, Hungarian, Polish, or Ukrainian would have been unthink-
able in 1980.
     The book filled a void in management thinking. After several
decades of development, the role of general managers versus spe-
cialists was becoming better defined. Strategic planning had become
widely accepted as the important task of charting a long-term direc-
tion for an enterprise. Early thinkers in the field such as Kenneth An-
drews and C. Roland Christensen had raised some important
questions in developing a strategy, as I note in Competitive Strat-
egy's original introduction. Yet there were no systematic, rigorous
tools for answering these questions-assessing a company's indus-
try, understanding competitors, and choosing a competitive position.
Some newly founded strategy consulting firms had moved to fill this
void, but the ideas they put forward, such as the experience curve,
rested on a single presumed basis of competition and a single type of
strategy.
     Competitive Strategy offered a rich framework for understand-
ing the underlying forces of competition in industries, captured in
the "five forces." The framework reveals the important differences
Introduction                                                           xi

among industries, how industries evolve, and helps companies find
a unique position. Competitive Strategy provided tools for capturing
the richness and heterogeneity of industries and companies while
providing a disciplined structure for examining them. The book also
brought structure to the concept of competitive advantage through
defining it in terms of cost and differentiation, and linking it directly
to profitability. Managers looking for concrete ways to tackle strate-
gic planning's difficult questions quickly embraced the book, which
rang true to practitioners.
     The book also signaled a new direction and provided an impetus
for economic thinking. The economic theory of competition at the
time was highly stylized. Economists focused mainly on industries;
companies were presumed equal or differing primarily in size or in
unexplained differences in efficiency. The prevailing view of indus-
try structure encompassed seller concentration and a few sources of
barriers to entry. Managers were all but absent in economic models,
with virtually no latitude to affect competitive outcomes. Econo-
mists were concerned mainly with the societal and public policy
consequences of alternative industry structures and patterns of com-
petition. The aim was to push "excess" profits down. Few econo-
mists had ever even considered the question of what the nature of
competition implied for company behavior, or how to push profits
up. Moreover, economists also lacked the tools to model competi-
tion among small numbers of firms whose behavior affected each
other. Competitive Strategy identified a range of phenomena that
economists, armed with new game-theoretic techniques, have begun
to explore mathematically for the first time.
     My training and assignments-first an MBA, then an econ-
omics PhD, then the unique Harvard Business School challenge of
using the case method to teach practitioners-revealed the gap be-
tween actual competition and the stylized models. They also created
a sense of urgency to develop tools that would inform actual choices
in real markets. With rich industry and company knowledge from
many case studies, I was able to offer a more sophisticated view of
industry competition and bring some structure to the question of
how a firm could outperform its rivals. Industry structure involved
five forces, not two. Competitive positions could be thought of in
terms of cost, differentiation, and scope. In my theory, managers had
important latitude to influence industry structure and to position the
company relative to others.
     Market signaling, switching costs, barriers to exit, cost versus
xii                                                                  INTRODUCTION

differentiation, and broad versus focused strategies were just some
of the new concepts explored in the book that proved to be fertile av-
enues for research, including the use of game theory. My approach
helped open up new territory for economists to explore, and offered
economists in business schools a way of moving beyond the teach-
ing of standard economic concepts and models. Competitive Strat-
egy has not only been widely used in teaching but has motivated and
served as a starting point in other efforts to bring economic thinking
to bear on practice.'
     What has changed since the book was published? In some ways,
everything has changed. New technologies, new management tools,
new growth industries, and new government policies have appeared
and reappeared. But in another sense, nothing has changed. The
book provides an underlying framework for examining competition
that transcends industries, particular technologies, or management
approaches. It applies to high-tech, low-tech, and service industries.
The advent of the Internet can alter barriers to entry, reshape buyer
power, or drive new patterns of substitution, for example, yet the un-
derlying forces of industry competition stay the same. Industry
changes make the ideas in the book even more important, because of
the need to rethink industry structure and boundaries. While 1990s
companies may look very different than 1980s companies or 1970s
companies, superior profitability within an industry still rests on rel-
ative cost and differentiation. One may believe that faster cycle time
or total quality hold the key to competing, but the acid test comes in
how these practices affect industry rivalry, a company's relative cost
position, or its ability to differentiate itself and command a price
premium.
     The ideas in the book have endured for the very reason that they
addressed the underlying fundamentals of competition in a way that
is independent of the specifics of the ways companies go about com-
peting. A number of other books on competition have come and
gone because they were really about special cases, or were grounded
not in the principles of competitive strategy but in particular com-
petitive practices. That is not to say that Competitive Strategy is the
last word on the subject. Quite the contrary, and there is much im-

' Notable examples include S. Oster, Modem Competitive Analysis, Second Edition, Ox-
 ford University Press, 1994; A. Dixit and B. Nalebuff, Thinking Strategically: The Com-
 petitive Edge in Business, Politics, and Everyday Life, W . W. Norton & Company, New
 York, 199 1; and D. Besanko, D. Dranove; and M. Shanley, The Economics of Strategy,
 Northwestern University, 1996.
Introduction                                                                              xiii

portant thinking that has advanced knowledge, and more will follow.
Competitive Strategy remains, however, an enduring foundation and
grounding point for thinking about industry competition and posi-
tioning within industries to which other ideas can be added and in-
tegrated.
     What would I modify or change? This is a challenging question
for any author to answer objectively. Competitive Strategy could
clearly be enriched in the form of new examples, in both old and
new industries. The concepts are just as powerful in services as in
products, and more service examples could be added. The frame-
works have been applied in virtually all significant countries, and an
internationalization of the examples would be very much in order.
While the industries, companies, and countries change, however, the
power of the concepts is enduring.
     On the level of ideas, I can honestly say that there is nothing yet
that I am persuaded to retract. This does not mean that we have not
pushed learning further. Various parts of the framework have been
tested, challenged, deepened, and importantly extended by others,
mostly academics. It is a source of pride, and some discomfort, that
Competitive Strategy has so often been a foil for other authors. It is
impossible here to do justice to this literature, which offers much
new insight. The supplier side has been fleshed out, for example, as
has our understanding of the theoretical underpinnings of barriers to
entry. Also, while firms inevitably have a bargaining relationship
with suppliers and buyers, firms can enhance total value to be di-
vided by working cooperatively with buyers, suppliers, and producers
of complementary products. This was developed in my later book
Competitive Advantage, and in subsequent literature.' Finally, em-
pirical work has verified many of Competitive Strategy's propositions.
     Competitive Strategy has certainly stirred its share of contro-
versy. Some of it involves misunderstandings, and suggests areas
where the presentation could be clearer. For example, some have
criticized the book for implying a static framework in a world that is
rapidly changing. Nothing static was ever intended. Each part of the
framework-industry analysis, competitor analysis, competitive po-
sitioning-stresses conditions that are subject to change. Indeed, the
frameworks reveal the dimensions of change that will be the most
significant. Much of the book is about how to understand and deal

?   The most important single contribution is A. Brandenburger and B. Nalebuff. Co-opetitiori.
    CurrencylDoubleday. New York, 1996.
xiv                                                                        INTRODUCTION

with change: e.g., industry evolution (Chapter 8); emerging indus-
tries (Chapter 10); dealing with industry maturity (Chapter 11); de-
clining industries (Chapter 12); and globalization (Chapter 13).
Companies can never stop learning about their industry, their rivals,
or ways to improve or modify their competitive position.
     Another misunderstanding revolves around the need to choose
between low cost and differentiation. My position is that being the
lowest cost producer and being truly differentiated and commanding
a price premium are rarely compatible. Successful strategies require
choice or they can be easily imitated. Becoming "stuck in the mid-
dle"-the phrase I introduced-is a recipe for disaster. Sometimes
companies such as Microsoft get so far ahead that they seem to
avoid the need for strategic choices, but this becomes their ultimate
vulnerability.
     This never meant companies could ignore cost in the pursuit of
differentiation, or ignore differentiation in the pursuit of lowest cost.
Nor should companies forgo improvements in one dimension that in-
volve no sacrifice in the other. Finally, a lowest-cost or differentiated
position, whether broad or focused, involves constant improvement.
A strategic position is a path, not a fixed location. I have recently in-
troduced the distinction between operational effectiveness and
strategic position that helps to clarify some of this c o n f ~ s i o n . ~
     Other controversies raised by the book, however, reflect real dif-
ferences of opinion. A school of thought has emerged which argues
that industries are not important to strategy, because industry struc-
ture and boundaries are said to change so rapidly or because prof-
itability is seen as dominated by individual firm position. I have
always argued that both industry and position are important, and that
ignoring either one exposes a firm to peril. Industry differences in
average profitability are large and enduring. Recent statistical evi-
dence confirms the importance of industry in explaining both firm
profitability and stock market performance, and finds that industry
differences are remarkably stable even in the 1 9 9 0 ~It. also
                                                            ~ suggests
that industry attributes are important in explaining the dispersion of

.' M.E. Porter, "What is Strategy?," Harvard Business Review, November-December 1996.
 In assessing the statistical evidence, it is important also to note that the relative contribu-
 tion of industry in explaining profitability is biased downward by overly broad SIC code
 industry definitions, overly broad line of business definitions in financial reporting, and
 the fact that partitioning of variance techniques artificially diminishes the measured con-
 tribution of industry. See A. McGahan and M.E. Porter, "What Do We Know About Vari-
 ance in Accounting Profitability?," Harvard Business School manuscript, August 1997.
Introduction                                                                        xv

profitability within i n d ~ s t r i e sIt. ~is hard to concoct a logic in which
the nature of the arena in which firms compete would not be impor-
tant to performance outcomes.
     Industry structure, embodied in the five competitive forces, pro-
vides a way to think about how value is created and divided among
existing and potential industry participants. It highlights the fact that
competition is more than just rivalry with existing competitors.
While there can be ambiguity about where to draw industry bound-
aries, one of the five forces always captures the essential issues in
the division of value. Some have argued for the addition of a sixth
force, most often government or technology. I remain convinced that
the roles of government or technology cannot be understood in iso-
lation, but through the five forces.
     Another school of thought asserts that factor market (input) con-
ditions take primacy over industry competition in determining com-
pany performance. Again, there is no empirical evidence to weigh
against the considerable evidence about the role of industry, and
supplier conditions are part of industry structure. While resources,
capabilities, or other attributes related to input markets have a place
in understanding the dynamics of competition, attempting to dis-
connect them from industry competition and the unique positions
that firms occupy vis-h-vis rivals is fraught with danger. The value
of resources and capabilities is inextricably bound with strategy.
No matter how much we learn about what goes on inside firms,
then, understanding industries and competitors will continue to be
essential to guide what firms should aim to do.
     Finally, in recent years there have been some who argue that
firms should not choose competitive positions at all but concentrate
on, variously, staying flexible, incorporating new ideas, or building
up critical resources or core competencies that are portrayed as in-
dependent of competitive position.
     I respectfully disagree. Staying flexible in strategic terms ren-
ders competitive advantage almost unobtainable. Jumping from
 See also A. McGahan and M.E. Porter, "How Much Does Industry Matter, Really?,"
 Strategic Management Journal, July 1997, pp. 15-30; A. McGahan and M.E. Porter, "The
 Persistence of Shocks to Profitability," Harvard Business School working paper, January
 1997; A. McGahan and M.E. Porter, "The Emergence and Sustainability of Abnormal
 Profits," Harvard Business School working paper, May 1997; A. McGahan, "The Influ-
 ence of Competitive Positioning on Corporate Performance," Harvard Business School
 working paper, May 1997; and J.W. Rivkin, "Reconcilable Differences: The Relationship
 Between Industry Conditions and Firm Effects," unpublished working paper, Harvard
 Business School, 1997.
xvi                                                     INTRODUCTION

strategy to strategy makes it impossible to be good at implementing
any of them. Continuous incorporation of new ideas is important to
maintaining operational effectiveness. But this is surely not at all in-
consistent with having a consistent strategic position.
     Concentrating only on resources/competencies and ignoring
competitive position runs the risk of becoming inward looking. Re-
sources or competencies are most valuable for a particular position
or way of competing, not in and of themselves. While the re-
source/competency perspective can be useful, it does not diminish
the crucial need in a particular business to understand industry struc-
ture and competitive position. Again, the need to connect competi-
tive ends (a company's position in the marketplace) and means
(what elements allow it to attain that position) is not just crucial but
essential.
     Competitive Strategy was written at a different time, and
spawned not only extensions but competing perspectives. Yet in a
curious way, appreciation of the importance of strategy is growing
today. Preoccupation with issues internal to companies over the last
decade had limits that are becoming apparent, and there is a renewed
awareness of the importance of strategy. With greater perspective
and less youthful enthusiasm, I hope we can now see, more clearly
than ever, the place of competitive strategy in the broader palette of
management, and develop a renewed appreciation for an integrated
view of competition.

                                            Michael E. Porter
                                            Brookline, Massachusetts
                                            January 1998
Preface




This book, which marks an important place in an intellectual jour-
ney that I have been on for much of my professional life, grows out
of my research and teaching in industrial organization economics
and in competitive strategy. Competitive strategy is an area of pri-
mary concern to managers, depending critically on a subtle under-
standing of industries and competitors. Yet the strategy field has of-
fered few analytical techniques for gaining this understanding, and
those that have emerged lack breadth and comprehensiveness. Con-
versely, since economists have long studied industry structure, but
mostly from a public policy perspective, economic research has not
addressed itself to the concerns of business managers.
      As one teaching and writing in both business strategy and indus-
trial economics, my work at the Harvard Business School over the
past decade has sought to help bridge this gap. The genesis of this
book was in my research on industrial economics, which began with
my doctoral dissertation and has continued since. The book became
a fact as I prepared material to use in the Business Policy course at
the school in 1975 and as I developed a course called Industry and
Competitive Analysis and taught it to MBA and executive students
over the last several years. I not only drew on statistically based
scholarly research in the traditional sense but also on studies of hun-
dreds of industries that have been the result of preparation of teach-
xviii                                                         PREFACE

ing materials, my own research, supervision of dozens of industry
studies by teams of MBA students, and my work with U.S. and in-
ternational companies.
     This book is written for practitioners who need to develop strat-
egy for a particular business and for scholars trying to understand
competition better. It is also directed at others who want to under-
stand their industry and competitors. Competitive analysis is impor-
tant not only in the formulation of business strategy but also in cor-
porate finance, marketing, security analysis, and many other areas
of business. I hope that the book will offer valuable insight to practi-
tioners in many different functions and at many organizational levels.
     It is also hoped that the book will contribute to the development
of sound public policy toward competition. Competitive Strategy ex-
amines the way in which a firm can compete more effectively to
strengthen its market position. Any such strategy must occur in the
context of rules of the game for socially desirable competitive behav-
ior, established by ethical standards and through public policy. The
rules of the game cannot achieve their intended effect unless they an-
ticipate correctly how businesses respond strategically to competitive
threats and opportunities.
     I have had considerable help and support in making this book a
reality. The Harvard Business School lent a unique setting in which
to do this research, and Deans Lawrence Fouraker and John McAr-
thur have provided useful comments, institutional support, and,
most importantly, encouragement right from the beginning. The Di-
vision of Research at the School extended much of the financial sup-
port for the study, in addition t o support from the General Electric
Foundation. Richard Rosenbloom, as Director of the Division of
Research, has been not only a patient investor but also a valued
source of commentary and advice.
     The study would not have been possible without the efforts of a
highly talented and dedicated group of research associates who have
worked with me over the last five years in conducting industry re-
search and preparing case material. Jessie Bourneuf, Steven J. Roth,
Margaret Lawrence, and Neal Bhadkamkar-all MBA's from Har-
vard-have each spent at least one year working with me full time
on the study.
     I have also benefited very much from research by a number of
my doctoral students in the area of competitive strategy. Kathryn
Harrigan's work on declining industries was a major contribution to
Chapter 12. Work by Joseph D'Cruz, Nitin Mehta, Peter Patch, and
preface                                                             xix

George Yip has also enriched my appreciation of important topics
covered in the book.
     My colleagues at Harvard and associates in outside firms have
played a central role in developing the book. Research that I co-
authored with Richard Caves, a valued friend and colleague, made
an important intellectual contribution to the book; he has also com-
mented perceptively on the entire manuscript. Members of the Busi-
ness Policy faculty at Harvard, particularly Malcolm Salter and Jo-
seph Bower, helped me to sharpen my thinking and offered valued
support. Catherine Hayden, Vice President of Strategic Planning
Associates, Inc. has been a continued source of ideas, besides com-
menting on the entire manuscript. Joint research and innumerable
discussions with Michael Spence increased my understanding of
strategy. Richard Meyer has taught my course in Industry and Com-
petitive Analysis with me, and stimulated my thinking in many
areas. Mark Fuller was of assistance through his work with me on
case development and industry studies. Thomas Hout, Eileen Rud-
den, and Eric Vogt-all of the Boston Consulting Group-contrib-
uted to Chapter 13. Others who have offered encouragement and
useful comments on the manuscript in its various stages include Pro-
fessors John Lintner, C. Roland Christensen, Kenneth Andrews,
Robert Buzzell, and Norman Berg; as well as John Nils Hanson
(Gould Corporation), John Forbus (McKinsey and Company), and
my editor Robert Wallace.
     I also owe a great debt to Emily Feudo and particularly Sheila
Barry, both of whom managed the production of the manuscript and
added to my peace of mind and productivity as I worked on this
study. Finally, I would like to thank my students in Industry and
Competitive Analysis, Business Policy, and Field Studies in Industry
Analysis courses for their patience in serving as the guinea pigs while
trying out the concepts in this book, but more importantly for their
enthusiasm in working with the ideas and helping me clarify my
thinking in innumerable ways.
Introduction, 1980




Every firm competing in an industry has a competitive strategy,
whether explicit or implicit. This strategy may have been developed
explicitly through a planning process or it may have evolved implicit-
ly through the activities of the various functional departments of the
firm. Left to its own devices, each functional department will in-
evitably pursue approaches dictated by its professional orientation
and the incentives of those in charge. However, the sum of these de-
partmental approaches rarely equals the best strategy.
     The emphasis being placed on strategic planning today in firms
in the United States and abroad reflects the proposition that there
are significant benefits to gain through an explicit process of formu-
lating strategy, to insure that at least the policies (if not the actions)
of functional departments are coordinated and directed at some
common set of goals. Increased attention t o formal strategic plan-
ning has highlighted questions that have long been of concern to
managers: What is driving competition in my industry or in in-
dustries I am thinking of entering? What actions are competitors
likely to take, and what is the best way to respond? How will my in-
dustry evolve? How can the firm be best positioned to compete in the
long run?

                                                                      xxi
xxii                                              INTRODUCTION, 1980

      Yet most of the emphasis in formal strategic planning processes
has been on asking these questions in an organized and disciplined
way rather than on answering them. Those techniques that have been
advanced for answering the questions, often by consulting firms,
either address the diversified company rather than the industry per-
spective or consider only one aspect of industry structure, like the
behavior of costs, that cannot hope to capture the richness and com-
plexity of industry competition.
     This book presents a comprehensive framework of analytical
techniques to help a firm analyze its industry as a whole and predict
the industry's future evolution, to understand its competitors and its
own position, and to translate this analysis into a competitive strate-
gy for a particular business. The book is organized into three parts.
Part I presents a general framework for analyzing the structure of an
industry and its competitors. The underpinning of this framework is
the analysis of the five competitive forces acting on an industry and
their strategic implications. Part I builds on this framework to pre-
sent techniques for the analysis of competitors, buyers, and sup-
pliers; techniques for reading market signals; game theoretic con-
cepts for making and responding to competitive moves; an approach
to mapping strategic groups in an industry and explaining differ-
ences in their performance; and a framework for predicting industry
evolution.
      Part I1 shows how the analytical framework described in Part I
can be used to develop competitive strategy in particular important
types of industry environments. These differing environments reflect
fundamental differences in industry concentration, state of maturi-
ty, and exposure to international competition. These differing envi-
ronments are crucial in determining the strategic context in which a
business competes, the strategic alternatives available, and the com-
mon strategic errors. Part I1 examines fragmented industries, emerg-
ing industries, the transition to industry maturity, declining indus-
tries, and global industries.
      Part I11 of the book completes the analytical framework by
systematically examining the important types of strategic decisions
that confront firms in competing in a single industry: vertical inte-
gration, major capacity expansion, and entry into new businesses.
(Divestment is considered in detail in Chapter 12 in Part 11.) The
analysis of each strategic decision draws on application of the gener-
al analytical tools of Part I as well as on other economic theory and
introduction, 1980                                                  xxiii

on administrative considerations in managing and motivating an or-
ganization. Part I11 is designed not only to help a company make
these'key decisions but also to give it insight into how its competi-
tors, customers, suppliers, and potential entrants might make them.
      To analyze competitive strategy for a particular business, the
reader can draw on the book in a number of ways. First, the general
analytical tools of Part I can be utilized. Second, the chapter or
chapters from Part I1 that bear on the key dimensions of the firm's
industry can be used to provide some more specific guidance for
strategy formulation in the business's particular environment. Final-
ly, if the business is considering a particular decision, the reader can
refer to the appropriate chapter in Part 111. Even if a particular deci-
sion is not imminent, Part I11 will usually be helpful in reviewing de-
cisions that have already been made and in examining the past and
present decisions of competitors.
      Whereas the reader can dip into a particular chapter, a great
deal is gained by having a working understanding of the entire
framework as a starting point for attacking a particular strategic
problem. The parts of the book are meant to enrich and reinforce
each other. Sections seemingly not important to the firm's own posi-
tion may well be crucial in looking at competitors, and the broad in-
dustry circumstances or the strategic decision currently on the table
may change. Reading the full book may appear formidable, but the
effort will be rewarded in terms of the speed and clarity with which a
strategic situation can then be assessed and a competitive strategy
developed.
      It will soon be apparent from reading the book that a compre-
hensive analysis of an industry and its competitors requires a great
deal of data, some of it subtle and difficult to obtain. The book aims
to provide the reader with a framework for deciding what data is
particularly crucial, and how it can be analyzed. Reflecting the prac-
tical problems of doing such an analysis, however, Appendix B pro-
vides an organized approach to actually conducting an industry
study, including sources of field and published data as well as guid-
ance in field interviewing.
      This book is written for practitioners, that is, managers seeking
to improve the performance of their businesses, advisors to manag-
ers, teachers of management, security analysts or other observers
trying to understand and forecast business success or failure, or gov-
ernment officials seeking to understand competition in order to for-
xxiv                                                        INTRODUCTION, 1980

mulate public policy. The book is drawn from my research in indus-
trial economics and business strategy and my teaching experience in
the MBA and executive programs at the Harvard Business School. It
draws upon detailed studies of hundreds of industries with all varie-
ties of structures and at widely differing states of maturity. The
book is not written from the viewpoint of the scholar or in the style
of my more academically oriented work, but it is hoped that scholars
will nevertheless be interested in the conceptual approach, the exten-
sions to the theory of industrial organization, and the many case ex-
amples.


Review: The Classic Approach to
Formulation of Strategy

Essentially, developing a competitive strategy is developing a broad
formula for how a business is going to compete, what its goals
should be, and what policies will be needed to carry out those goals.
To serve as a common starting point for the reader before plunging
into the analytical framework of this book, this section will review a
classic approach to strategy formulation' that has become a stan-
dard in the field. Figures 1-1 and 1-2 illustrate this approach.
     Figure 1-1 illustrates that competitive strategy is a combination
of the ends (goals) for which the firm is striving and the means (poli-
cies) by which it is seeking to get there. Different firms have differ-
ent words for some of the concepts illustrated. For example, some
firms use terms like "mission" or "objective" instead of "goals,"
and some firms use "tactics" instead of "operating" or "functional
policies." Yet the essential notion of strategy is captured in the dis-
tinction between ends and means.
     Figure 1-1, which can be called the "Wheel of Competitive
Strategy," is a device for articulating the key aspects of a firm's
competitive strategy on a single page. In the hub of the wheel are the
'This section draws heavily on work by Andrews, Christensen, and others in the
 Policy group at the Harvard Business School. For a more complete articulation of
 the concept of strategy see Andrews (1971); and more recently Christensen, An-
 d r e w ~ and
           , Bower (1977). These classic accounts also discuss the reasons why expli-
 cit strategy is important in a company, as well as the relationship between strategy
 formulation and the broader role and functions of general management. Planning
 strategy is far from the only thing that general management does or should do.
         \      /      Labor    (   Manufacturinp   \   /



FIGURE 1-1. The Wheel of Competitive Strategy

firm's goals, which are its broad definition of how it wants to com-
pete and its specific economic and noneconomic objectives. The
spokes of the wheel are the key operating policies with which the
firm is seeking to achieve these goals. Under each heading on the
wheel a succinct statement of the key operating policies in that func-
tional area should be derived from the company's activities. Depend-
ing on the nature of the business, management can be more or less
specific in articulating these key operating policies; once they are
specified, the concept of strategy can be used to guide the overall be-
havior of the firm. Like a wheel, the spokes (policies) must radiate
from and reflect the hub (goals), and the spokes must be connected
with each other or the wheel will not roll.
     Figure 1-2 illustrates that at the broadest level formulating com-
petitive strategy involves the consideration of four key factors that
                                                  INTRODUCTION. 1980


             Company
             StrengthS
                    '
                          I -
                             I               Industry
                                          Opportunities
                                           aand Threats
                                                          II
         1   Weaknesses
                  and     I  I           (Economic and
                                            Technical)




              -values
                 . --'
             of the
                          I
                          1
                            I1              Broader
                                            Societal
                                          Expectations



FIGURE 1.2. Context in Which Competitive Strategy Is Formulated


determine the limits of what a company can successfully accomplish.
The company's strengths and weaknesses are its profile of assets and
skills relative to competitors, including financial resources, techno-
logical posture, brand identification, and so on. The personal values
of an organization are the motivations and needs of the key execu-
tives and other personnel who must implement the chosen strategy.
Strengths and weaknesses combined with values determine the inter-
nal (to the company) limits to the competitive strategy a company
can successfully adopt.
      The external limits are determined by its industry and broader
environment. Industry opportunities and threats define the competi-
tive environment, with its attendant risks and potential rewards. So-
cietal expectations reflect the impact on the company of such things
as government policy, social concerns, evolving mores, and many
others. These four factors must be considered before a business can
develop a realistic and implementable set of goals and policies.
      The appropriateness of a competitive strategy can be deter-
mined by testing the proposed goals and policies for consistency, as
shown in Figure 1-3.
Introduction, 1980

FIGURE 1.3 Tests of Consistencya
Internal Consistency
     Are the goals mutually achievable?
     Do the key operating policies address the goals?
     Do the key operating policies reinforce each other?
EnvironmentalFit
     Do the goals and policies exploit industry opportunities?
     Do the goals and policies deal with industry threats (including the risk of com-
     petitive response) to the degree possible with available resources?
     Does the timing of the goals and policies reflect the ability of the environment
     to absorb the actions?
     Are the goals and policies responsive to broader societal concerns?
Resource Fit
     Do the goals and policies match the resources available to the company relative
     to competitors?
     Does the timing of the goals and policies reflect the organization's ability to
     change?
Communication and Implementation
     Are the goals well understood by the key implementers?
     Is there enough congruence between the goals and policies and the values of the
     key implementers to insure commitment?
     Is there sufficient managerial capability to allow for effective implementation?
=Thesequestions are a modified version of those developed in Andrews (1971).


     These broad considerations in an effective competitive strategy
can be translated into a generalized approach to the formulation of
strategy. The outline of questions in Figure 1-4 gives such an ap-
proach to developing the optimal competitive strategy.

FIGURE 1-4 Process for Formulating a Competitive Strategy
A.    What is the Business Doing Now?
      1. Identification
            What is the implicit or explicit current strategy?
      2. Implied Assumptions*
           What assumptions about the company's relative position, strengths and
           weaknesses, competitors, and industry trends must be made for the cur-
           rent strategy to make sense?
'Given the premise that managers honestly try to optimize the performance of their businesses,
the current strategy being followed by a business must reflect assumptions management is mak-
ing about its industry and the business's relative position in the industry. Understanding and
xxviii                                                             INTRODUCTION. 1980



B.    What is Happening in the Environment?
      1. Industry Analysis
           What are the key factors for competitive success and the important in-
           dustry opportunities and threats?
      2. Competitor Analysis
           What are the capabilities and limitations of existing and potential com-
           petitors, and their probable future moves?
      3. Societal Analysis
           What important governmental, social, and political factors will present
           opportunities or threats?
      4. Strengths and Weaknesses
           Given an analysis of industry and competitors, what are the company's
           strengths and weaknesses relative to present a n dfuture competitors?
C.    What Should the Business be Doing?
      1. Tests of Assumptions and Strategy
           How d o the assumptions embodied in the current strategy compare with
           the analysis in B above? How does the strategy meet the tests in Fig-
           ure I-3?
      2. Strategic Alternatives
           What are the feasible strategic alternatives given the analysis above? (Is
           the current strategy one of these?)
      3. Strategic Choice
           Which alternative best relates the company's situation to external oppor-
           tunities and threats?


     Although the process shown in Figure 1-4 may be intuitively
clear, answering these questions involves a great deal of penetrating
analysis. It is answering these questions that is the purpose of this
book.




addressing these implied assumptions can be crucial to giving strategic advice. Usually a great
deal of convincing data and support must be mustered to change these assumptions, and this is
where much if not most attention needs to be focused. The sheer logic of the strategic choice is
not enough; it will not be convincing if it ignores management's assumptions.
COMPETITIVE
STRATEGY
General Analytical
Techniques

Part I lays the analytical foundation for the development of com-
petitive strategy, built on the analysis of industry structure and
competitors. Chapter 1 introduces the concept of structural
analysis as a framework for understanding the five fundamental
forces of competition in an industry. This framework is the start-
ing point from which much of the subsequent discussion in the
book begins. The structural analysis framework is used in Chap-
ter 2 to identify at the broadest level the three generic competi-
tive strategies that can be viable in the long run.
      Chapters 3, 4, and 5 deal with the other key part of the for-
mu lation of competitive strategy: competitor analysis. In Chap-
ter 3 a framework for analyzing competitors is presented. which
aids in diagnosing probable moves by competitors and their abil-
ity to react. Chapter 3 gives detailed questions that can help the
analyst to assess a particular competitor. Chapter 4 shows how
company behavior gives off a variety of types of market signals
that can be used to enrich competitor analysis and as a basis for
taking strategic actions. Chapter 5 sets forth a primer for mak-
ing, influencing, and reacting to competitive moves. Chapter 6
                                                                 1
2                                          COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

elaborates on the concept of structural analysis for developing
strategies toward buyers and suppliers.
      The final two chapters of Part I bring industry and compet-
itor analysis together. Chapter 7 shows how to analyze the na-
ture of competition within an industry, employing the concept of
strategic groups and the principle of mobility barriers that are
deterrents to shifts in strategic position. Chapter 8 concludes
the discussion of general analytical techniques by examining
ways of predicting the process of industry evolution and some of
the implications of that evolution for competitive strategy.
The Structural Analysis
of Industries



The essence of formulating competitive strategy is relating a com-
pany to its environment. Although the relevant environment is very
broad, encompassing social as well as economic forces, the key as-
pect of the firm's environment is the industry or industries in which
it competes. Industry structure has a strong influence in determining
the competitive rules of the game as well as the strategies potentially
available to the firm. Forces outside the industry are significant pri-
marily in a relative sense; since outside forces usually affect all firms
in the industry, the key is found in the differing abilities of firms to
deal with them.
     The intensity of competition in an industry is neither a matter
of coincidence nor bad luck. Rather, competition in an industry is
rooted in its underlying economic structure and goes well beyond the
behavior of current competitors. The state of competition in an in-
dustry depends on five basic competitive forces, which are shown in
Figure 1-1. The collective strength of these forces determines the ul-
timate profit potential in the industry, where profit potential is mea-
sured in terms of long run return on invested capital. Not all in-
dustries have the same potential. They differ fundamentally in their
ultimate profit potential as the collective strength of the forces dif-
                                                                        3
                                                        COMPETITIVE STRATEGY




                               1
                                         I
                                    INDUSTRY
                                              Threat of
                                             new entrants

                                                    I
              of suppliers
                           - U
            Bargaining power       COMPETITORS          Bargaining power

                                                                           BUYERS

                                   Rivalry Among
                                   Existing Firms

                       Threat of
                   substitute products
                       or services
                                         I
FIGURE 1-1. Forces Driving Industry Competition

fers; the forces range from intense in industries like tires, paper, and
steel-where no firm earns spectacular returns-to relatively mild in
industries like oil-field equipment and services, cosmetics, and toi-
letries-where high returns are quite common.
      This chapter will be concerned with identifying the key struc-
tural features of industries that determine the strength of the compe-
titive forces and hence industry profitability. The goal of competi-
tive strategy for a business unit in an industry is to find a position in
the industry where the company can best defend itself against these
competitive forces or can influence them in its favor. Since the col-
lective strength of the forces may well be painfully apparent to all
competitors, the key for developing strategy is to delve below the
surface and analyze the sources of each. Knowledge of these under-
lying sources of competitive pressure highlights the critical strengths
and weaknesses of the company, animates its positioning in its in-
dustry, clarifies the areas where strategic changes may yield the
greatest payoff, and highlights the areas where industry trends
promise to hold the greatest significance as either opportunities or
threats. Understanding these sources will also prove to be useful in
The Structural Analysis of Industries                                          5

considering areas for diversification, though the primary focus here
is on strategy in individual industries. Structural analysis is the fun-
damental underpinning for formulating competitive strategy and a
key building block for most of the concepts in this book.
     To avoid needless repetition, the term "product" rather than
"product or service" will be used to refer to the output of an in-
dustry, even though the principles of structural analysis developed
here apply equally to product and service businesses. Structural
analysis also applies to diagnosing industry competition in any coun-
try or in an international market, though some of the institutional
circumstances may differ. '


Structural Determinants of the Intensity
of Competition

     Let us adopt the working definition of an industry as the group
of firms producing products that are close substitutes for each other.
In practice there is often a great deal of controversy over the appro-
priate definition, centering around how close substitutability needs
to be in terms of product, process, or geographic market boundaries.
Because we will be in a better position to treat these issues once the
basic concept of structural analysis has been introduced, we will as-
sume initially that industry boundaries have already been drawn.
     Competition in an industry continually works to drive down the
rate of return on invested capital toward the competitive floor rate
of return, or the return that would be earned by the economist's
"perfectly competitive" industry. This competitive floor, or "free
market" return, is approximated by the yield on long-term govern-
ment securities adjusted upward by the risk of capital loss. Investors
will not tolerate returns below this rate in the long run because of
their alternative of investing in other industries, and firms habitually
earning less than this return will eventually go out of business. The
presence of rates of return higher than the adjusted free market re-
turn serves to stimulate the inflow of capital into an industry either
through new entry or through additional investment by existing com-
petitors. The strength of the competitive forces in an industry deter-
'Chapter 13 discusses some of the particular implications of competing in global
 industries.
6                                              COMPETITIVESTRATEGY

 mines the degree to which this inflow of investment occurs and
 drives the return to the free market level, and thus the ability of
 firms to sustain above-average returns.
      The five competitive forces-entry, threat of substitution, bar-
gaining power of buyers, bargaining power of suppliers, and rivalry
among current competitors-reflect the fact that competition in an
industry goes well beyond the established players. Customers, sup-
 pliers, substitutes, and potential entrants are all "competitors" to
firms in the industry and may be more or less prominent depending
on the particular circumstances. Competition in this broader sense
might be termed extended rivalry.
      All five competitive forces jointly determine the intensity of in-
dustry competition and profitability, and the strongest force or
forces are governing and become crucial from the point of view of
strategy formulation. For example, even a company with a very
strong market position in an industry where potential entrants are no
threat will earn low returns if it faces a superior, lower-cost substi-
tute. Even with no substitutes and blocked entry, intense rivalry
among existing competitors will limit potential returns. The extreme
case of competitive intensity is the economist's perfectly competitive
industry, where entry is free, existing firms have no bargaining
power against suppliers and customers, and rivalry is unbridled be-
cause the numerous firms and products are all alike.
      Different forces take on prominence, of course, in shaping com-
petition in each industry. In the ocean-going tanker industry the key
force is probably the buyers (the major oil companies), whereas in
tires it is powerful original equipment (OEM) buyers coupled with
tough competitors. In the steel industry the key forces are foreign
competitors and substitute materials.
      The underlying structure of an industry, reflected in the
strength of the forces, should be distinguished from the many short-
run factors that can affect competition and profitability in a tran-
sient way. For example, fluctuations in economic conditions over the
business cycle influence the short-run profitability of nearly all firms
in many industries, as can material shortages, strikes, spurts in de-
mand, and the like. Although such factors may have tactical signifi-
cance, the focus of the analysis of industry structure, or "structural
analysis," is on identifying the basic, underlying characteristics of
an industry rooted in its economics and technology that shape the
arena in which competitive strategy must be set. Firms will each have
unique strengths and weaknesses in dealing with industry structure,
The Structural Analysis of Industries                                7

and industry structure can and does shift gradually over time. Yet
understanding industry structure must be the starting point for
strategic analysis.
     A number of important economic and technical characteristics
of an industry are critical to the strength of each competitive force.
These will be discussed in turn.


     THREAT OF ENTRY

     New entrants to an industry bring new capacity, the desire to
gain market share, and often substantial resources. Prices can be bid
down or incumbents' costs inflated as a result, reducing profitabili-
ty. Companies diversifying through acquisition into the industry
from other markets often use their resources to cause a shake-up, as
Philip Morris did with Miller beer. Thus acquisition into an industry
with intent to build market position should probably be viewed as
entry even though no entirely new entity is created.
     The threat of entry into an industry depends on the barriers to
entry that are present, coupled with the reaction from existing com-
petitors that the entrant can expect. If barriers are high and/or the
newcomer can expect sharp retaliation from entrenched competitors,
the threat of entry is low.


     There are six major sources of barriers to entry:

     Economies of Scale. Economies of scale refer to declines in
unit costs of a product (or operation or function that goes into pro-
ducing a product) as the absolute volume per period increases. Econ-
omies of scale deter entry by forcing the entrant to come in at large
scale and risk strong reaction from existing firms or come in at a
small scale and accept a cost disadvantage, both undesirable op-
tions. Scale economies can be present in nearly every function of a
business, including manufacturing, purchasing, research and devel-
opment, marketing, service network, sales force utilization, and dis-
tribution. For example, scale economies in production, research,
marketing, and service are probably the key barriers to entry in the
mainframe computer industry, as Xerox and General Electric sadly
discovered.
                                                         COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

      Scale economies may relate to an entire functional area, as in
 the case of a sales force, or they may stem from particular opera-
 tions or activities that are part of a functional area. For example, in
 the manufacture of television sets, economies of scale are large in
color tube production, and they are less significant in cabinetmaking
 and set assembly. It is important to examine each component of
costs separately for its particular relationship between unit cost and
scale.
      Units of multibusiness firms may be able to reap economies
similar to those of scale if they are able to share operations or func-
 tions subject to economies of scale with other businesses in the com-
 pany. For example, the multibusiness company may manufacture
small electric motors, which are then used in producing industrial
fans, hairdryers, and cooling systems for electronic equipment. If
economies of scale in motor manufacturing extend beyond the num-
ber of motors needed in any one market, the multibusiness firm di-
versified in this way will reap economies in motor manufacturing
that exceed those available if it only manufactured motors for use in,
say, hairdryers. Thus related diversification around common opera-
tions or functions can remove volume constraints imposed by the
size of a given i n d ~ s t r yThe
                               . ~ prospective entrant is forced to be di-
versified or face a cost disadvantage. Potentially shareable activities
or functions subject to economies of scale can include sales forces,
distribution systems, purchasing, and so on.
     The benefits of sharing are particularly potent if there are joint
costs. Joint costs occur when a firm producing product A (or an
operation or function that is part of producing A) must inherently
have the capacity to produce product B. An example is air passenger
services and air cargo, where because of technological constraints
only so much space in the aircraft can be filled with passengers, leav-
ing available cargo space and payload capacity. Many of the costs
must be borne to put the plane into the air and there is capacity for
freight regardless of the quantity of passengers the plane is carrying.
Thus the firm that competes in both passenger and freight may have
a substantial advantage over the firm competing in only one market.
'For this entry barrier to. be significant it is crucial that the shared operation or
 function be subject to economies of scale which extend beyond the size of any one
 market. If this is not the case, cost savings of sharing can be illusory. A company
 may see its costs decline as overhead is spread, but this depends solely on the
 presence of excess capacity in the operation or function. These economies are
 short-run economies, and once capacity is fully utilized and expanded the true cost
 of the shared operation will become apparent.
The Structural Analysis of Industries                                9

This same sort of effect occurs in businesses that involve manufac-
turing processes involving by-products. The entrant who cannot cap-
ture the highest available incremental revenue from the by-products
can face a disadvantage if incumbent firms do.
      A common situation of joint costs occurs when business units
can share intangible assets such as brand names and know-how. The
cost of creating an intangible asset need only be borne once; the asset
may then be freely applied to other business, subject only to any costs
of adapting or modifying it. Thus situations in which intangible as-
sets are shared can lead to substantial economies.
     A type of economies of scale entry barrier occurs when there are
economies to vertical integration, that is, operating in successive
stages of production o r distribution. Here the entrant must enter in-
tegrated or face a cost disadvantage, as well as possible foreclosure
of inputs or markets for its product if most established competitors
are integrated. Foreclosure in such situations stems from the fact
that most customers purchase from in-house units, or most suppliers
"sell" their inputs in-house. The independent firm faces a difficult
time in getting comparable prices and may become "squeezed" if in-
tegrated competitors offer different terms to it than to their captive
units. The requirement to enter integrated may heighten the risks of
retaliation and also elevate other entry barriers discussed below.

     Product Differentiation. Product differentiation means that
established firms have brand identification and customer loyalties,
which stem from past advertising, customer service, product differ-
ences, or simply being first into the industry. Differentiation creates
a barrier to entry by forcing entrants to spend heavily to overcome
existing customer loyalties. This effort usually involves start-up
losses and often takes an extended period of time. Such investments
in building a brand name are particularly risky since they have no
salvage value if entry fails.
     Product differentiation is perhaps the most important entry
barrier in baby care products, over-the-counter drugs, cosmetics, in-
vestment banking, and public accounting. In the brewing industry,
product differentiation is coupled with economies of scale in produc-
tion, marketing, and distribution to create high barriers.

     Capital Requirements. The need to invest large financial re-
sources in order to compete creates a barrier to entry, praticularly if
the capital is required for risky or unrecoverable up-front advertis-
10                                                      COMPETITIVESTRATEGY

ing or research and development (R&D). Capital may be necessary
not only for production facilities but also for things like customer
credit, inventories, or covering start-up losses. Xerox created a ma-
jor capital barrier to entry in copiers, for example, when it chose to
rent copiers rather than sell them outright which greatly increased
the need for working capital. Whereas today's major corporations
have the financial resources to enter almost any industry, the huge
capital requirements in fields like computers and mineral extraction
limit the pool of likely entrants. Even if capital is available on the
capital markets, entry represents a risky use of that capital which
should be reflected in risk premiums charged the prospective en-
trant; these constitute advantages for going firms.3

     Switching Costs. A barrier to entry is created by the presence
of switching costs, that is, one-time costs facing the buyer of switch-
ing from one supplier's product to another's. Switching costs may
include employee retraining costs, cost of new ancillary equipment,
cost and time in testing or qualifying a new source, need for techni-
cal help as a result of reliance on seller engineering aid, product rede-
sign, or even psychic costs of severing a relati~nship.~         If these
switching costs are high, then new entrants must offer a major im-
provement in cost or performance in order for the buyer to switch
from an incumbent. For example, in intravenous (IV) solutions and
kits for use in hospitals, procedures for attaching solutions to pa-
tients differ among competitive products and the hardware for hang-
ing the IV bottles are not compatible. Here switching encounters
great resistance from nurses responsible for administering the treat-
ment and requires new investments in hardware.

      Access to Distribution Channels. A barrier to entry can be
created by the new entrant's need to secure distribution for its prod-
uct. To the extent that logical distribution channels for the product
have already been served by established firms, the new firm must
persuade the channels to accept its product through price breaks,
cooperative advertising allowances, and the like, which reduce prof-
its. The manufacturer of a new food product, for example, must per-
'In some industries suppliers are willing to help finance entry in order to increase
 their own sales (oil tankers, logging equipment). This obviously lowers effective
 capital barriers to entry.
'Switching costs may also be present for the seller. Switching costs and some of
 their implications will be discussed more fully in Chapter 6.
The Structural Analysis of Industries                                11

suade the retailer to give it space on the fiercely competitive super-
market shelf via promises of promotions, intense selling efforts to
the retailer, or some other means.
     The more limited the wholesale or retail channels for a product
are and the more existing competitors have these tied up, obviously
the tougher entry into the industry will be. Existing competitors may
have ties with channels based on long relationships, high-quality
service, or even exclusive relationships in which the channel is solely
identified with a particular manufacturer. Sometimes this barrier to
entry is so high that to surmount it a new firm must create an entirely
new distribution channel, as Timex did in the watch industry.

      Cost Disadvantages Independent of Scale. Established firms
may have cost advantages not replicable by potential entrants no
matter what their size and attained economies of scale. The most
critical advantages are factors such as the following:
       Proprietary product technology: product know-how or de-
       sign characteristics that are kept proprietary through patents
       or secrecy.
       Favorable access to raw materials: established firms may
       have locked up the most favorable sources and/or tied up
       foreseeable needs early at prices reflecting a lower demand
       for them than currently exists. For example, Frasch sulphur
       firms like Texas Gulf Sulphur gained control of some very
       favorable large salt dome sulphur deposits many years ago,
       before mineral rightholders were aware of their value as a re-
       sult of the Frasch mining technology. Discoverers of sulphur
       deposits were often disappointed oil companies who were ex-
       ploring for oil and not prone to value them highly.
       Favorable locations: established firms may have cornered
       favorable locations before market forces bid up prices to cap-
       ture their full value.
       Government subsidies: preferential government subsidies
       may give established firms lasting advantages in some bus-
       inesses.
       Learning or experience curve: in some businesses, there is an
       observed tendency for unit costs to decline as the firm gains
       more cumulative experience in producing a product. Costs
       decline because workers improve their methods and become
       more efficient (the classic learning curve), layout improves,
                                               COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

       specialized equipment and processes are developed, better
       performance is coaxed from equipment, product design
       changes make manufacturing easier, techniques for measure-
       ment and control of operations improve, and so on. Experi-
       ence is just a name for certain kinds of technological change
       and may apply not only to production but also to distribu-
       tion, logistics, and other functions. As is the case with scale
       economies, cost declines with experience relate not to the en-
       tire firm but arise from the individual operations or functions
       that make up the firm. Experience can lower costs in market-
       ing, distribution, and other areas as well as in production or
       operations within production, and each component of costs
       must be examined for the effects of experience.

     Cost declines with experience seem to be the most significant in
businesses involving a high labor content performing intricate tasks
and/or complex assembly operations (aircraft manufacture, ship-
building). They are nearly always the most significant in the early
and growth phase of a product's development, and later reach di-
minishing proportional improvements. Often economies of scale are
cited among the reasons that costs decline with experience. Econo-
mies of scale are dependent on volume per period, and not on cumu-
lative volume, and are very different analytically from experience,
although the two often occur together and can be hard to separate.
The dangers of lumping scale and experience together will be dis-
cussed further.
     If costs decline with experience in an industry, and if the experi-
ence can be kept proprietary by established firms, then this effect
leads to an entry barrier. Newly started firms, with no experience,
will have inherently higher costs than established firms and must
bear heavy start-up losses from below- or near-cost pricing in order
to gain the experience to achieve cost parity with established firms (if
they ever can). Established firms, particularly the market share
leader who is accumulating experience the fastest, will have higher
cash flow because of their lower costs to invest in new equipment
and techniques. However, it is important to recognize that pursuing
experience curve cost declines (and scale economies) may require
substantial up-front capital investment for equipment and startup
losses. If costs continue to decline with volume even as cumulative
volume gets very large, new entrants may never catch up. A number
The Structural Analysis of Industries                                 13

 of firms, notably Texas Instruments, Black and Decker, Emerson
 Electric, and others have built successful strategies based on the ex-
 perience curve through aggressive investments to build cumulative
 volume early in the development of industries, often by pricing in
 anticipation of future cost declines.
     The decline in cost from experience can be augmented if there
are diversified firms in the industry who share operations or func-
tions subject to such a decline with other units in the company, or
where there are related activities in the company from which incom-
plete though useful experience can be obtained. When an activity
like the fabrication of raw material is shared by several business
units, experience obviously accumulates faster than it would if the
activity were used solely to meet the needs in one industry. Or when
the corporate entity has related activities within the firm, sister units
can receive the benefits of their experience at little or no cost since
much experience is an intangible asset. This sort of shared learning
accentuates the entry barrier provided by the experience curve, pro-
vided the other conditions for its significance are met.
     Experience is such a widely used concept in strategy formulation
that its strategic implications will be discussed further.

      Government Policy. The last major source of entry barriers is
government policy. Government can limit or even foreclose entry in-
to industries with such controls as licensing requirements and limits
on access to raw materials (like coal lands or mountains on which to
build ski areas). Regulated industries like trucking, railroads, liquor
retailing, and freight forwarding are obvious examples. More subtle
government restrictions on entry can stem from controls such as air
and water pollution standards and product safety and efficacy reg-
ulations. For example, pollution control requirements can increase
the capital needed for entry and the required technological sophisti-
cation and even the optimal scale of facilities. Standards for product
testing, common in industries like food and other health-related
products, can impose substantial lead times, which not only raise the
capital cost of entry but also give established firms ample notice of
impending entry and sometimes full knowledge of the new com-
petitor's product with which to formulate retaliatory strategies.
Government policy in such areas certainly has direct social benefits,
but it often has secondary consequences for entry which are un-
recognized.
                                               COMPETITIVE STRATEGY



     The potential entrant's expectations about the reaction of exist-
ing competitors also will influence the threat of entry. If existing
competitors are expected to respond forcefully to make the entrant's
stay in the industry an unpleasant one, then entry may well be de-
terred. Conditions that signal the strong likelihood of retaliation to
entry and hence deter it are the following:
       a history of vigorous retaliation to entrants;
       established firms with substantial resources to fight back, in-
       cluding excess cash and unused borrowing capacity, adequate
       excess productive capacity to meet all likely future needs, or
       great leverage with distribution channels or customers;
       established firms with great commitment to the industry and
       highly illiquid assets employed in it;
       slow industry growth, which limits the ability of the industry
       to absorb a new firm without depressing the sales and finan-
       cial performance of established firms.


     The condition of entry in an industry can be summarized in an
important hypothetical concept called the entry deterring price: the
prevailing structure of prices (and related terms such as product qual-
ity and service) which just balances the potential rewards from entry
(forecast by the potential entrant) with the expected costs of over-
coming structural entry barriers and risking retaliation. If the cur-
rent price level is higher than the entry deterring price, entrants will
forecast above-average profits from entry, and entry will occur. Of
course the entry deterring price depends on entrants' expectations of
the future and not just current conditions.
     The threat of entry into an industry can be eliminated if incum-
bent firms choose or are forced by competition to price below this
hypothetical entry deterring price. If they price above It, gains in
terms of profitability may be short-lived because they will be dis-
sipated by the cost of fighting or coexisting with new entrants.


     There are several additional properties of entry barriers that are
crucial from a strategic standpoint. First, entry barriers can and do
change as the conditions previously described change. The expira-
The Structural Analysis of Industries                                           15

tion of Polaroid's basic patents on instant photography, for in-
stance, greatly reduced its absolute cost entry barrier built by propri-
etary technology. It is not surprising that Kodak plunged into the
market. Product differentiation in the magazine printing industry
has all but disappeared, reducing barriers. Conversely, in the auto
industry, economies of scale increased with post-World War I1 auto-
mation and vertical integration, virtually stopping successful new
entry.
     Second, although entry barriers sometimes change for reasons
largely outside the firm's control, the firm's strategic decisions also
can have a major impact. For example, the actions of many U. S.
wine producers in the 1960s to step up introductions of new prod-
ucts, raise advertising levels, and undertake national distribution
surely increased entry barriers by raising economies of scale in the
industry and making access to distribution channels more difficult.
Similarly, decisions by members of the recreational vehicle industry
to vertically integrate into parts manufacture in order to lower costs
have greatly increased the economies of scale there and raised the
capital cost barriers.
     Finally, some firms may possess resources or skills which allow
them to overcome entry barrier into an industry more cheaply than
most other firms. For example, Gillette, with well-developed distri-
bution channels for razors and blades, faced lower costs of entry in-
to disposable lighters than did many other firms. The ability to share
costs also provides opportunities for low-cost entry. (In Chapter 16
we will explore the implications of factors like these for entry strat-
egy in some detail).
     EXPERIENCE AND SCALE AS ENTRY B ARRIERS
     Although they often coincide, economies of scale and experi-
ence have very different properties as entry barriers. The presence of
economies of scale always leads to a cost advantage for the large-
scale firm (or firm that can share activities) over small-scale firms,
presupposing that the former have the most efficient facilities, distri-
bution systems, service organizations, or other functional activities
for their size.5 This cost advantage can be matched only by attaining
comparable scale or appropriate diversification to allow cost shar-
ing. The large-scale or diversified firm can spread the fixed costs
of operating these efficient facilities over a large number of units,
'And presupposing that the large-scale firm does not nullify its advantage through
 product line proliferation.
16                                                 COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

 whereas the smaller firm, even if it has technologically efficient facil-
 ities, will not fully utilize them.
       Some limits to economies of scale as an entry barrier, from the
 strategic standpoint of incumbents, are as follows:

       Large-scale and hence lower costs may involve trade-offs
       with other potentially valuable barriers to entry such as prod-
       uct differentiation (scale may work against product image or
       responsive service, for example) or the ability to develop pro-
       prietary technology rapidly.
       Technological change may penalize the large-scale firm if fa-
       cilities designed to reap scale economies are also more spe-
       cialized and less flexible in adapting to new technologies.
       Commitment to achieving scale economies by using existing
       technology may cloud the perception of new technological
       possibilities or of other new ways of competing that are less
       dependent on scale.
     Experience is a more ethereal entry barrier than scale, because
the mere presence of an experience curve does not insure an entry
barrier. Another crucial prerequisite is that the experience be propri-
etary, and not available to competitors and potential entrants
through (1) copying, (2) hiring a competitor's employees, or (3) pur-
chasing the latest machinery from equipment suppliers or purchas-
ing know-how from consultants or other firms. Frequently, expe-
rience cannot be kept proprietary; even when it can, experience may
accumulate more rapidly for the second and third firms in the mar-
ket than it did for the pioneer because followers can observe some
aspects of the pioneer's operations. Where experience cannot be kept
proprietary, new entrants may actually have an advantage if they
can buy the latest equipment or adapt to new methods unencum-
bered by having operated the old way in the past.
     Other limits to the experience curve as an entry barrier are as
follows:
       The barrier can be nullified by product or process innovations
       leading to a substantially new technology and thereby creat-
       ing an entirely new experience curve.6 New entrants can leap-
       frog the industry leaders and alight on the new experience
       curve, to which the leaders may be poorly positioned to jump.
6For an example of this development drawn from the history of the automobile
 industry, see Abernathy and Wayne (1974), p. 109.
The Structural Analysis of Industries                                 17

        Pursuit of low cost through experience may involve trade-
        offs with other valuable barriers, such as product differentia-
        tion through image or technological progressiveness. For
        example, Hewlett-Packard has erected substantial barriers
        based on technological progressiveness in industries in which
        other firms are following strategies based on experience and
        scale, like calculators and minicomputers.
        If more than one strong company is building its strategy on
        the experience curve, the consequences for one or more of
        them can be nearly fatal. By the time only one rival is left pur-
        suing such a strategy, industry growth may have stopped and
        the prospects of capturing the experience curve benefits long
        since evaporated.
        Aggressive pursuit of cost declines through experience may
        draw attention away from market developments in other
        areas or may cloud perception of new technologies that nul-
        lify past experience.


     INTENSITY OF RIVALRY AMONG EXISTING COMPETITORS

      Rivalry among existing competitors takes the familiar form of
jockeying for position-using tactics like price competition, adver-
tising battles, product introductions, and increased customer service
or warranties. Rivalry occurs because one or more competitors
either feels the pressure or sees the opportunity to improve position.
In most industries, competitive moves by one firm have noticeable
effects on its competitors and thus may incite retaliation or efforts to
counter the move; that is, firms are mutually dependent. This pat-
tern of action and reaction may or may not leave the initiating firm
and the industry as a whole better off. If moves and countermoves
escalate, then all firms in the industry may suffer and be worse off
than before.
      Some forms of competition, notably price competition, are
highly unstable and quite likely to leave the entire industry worse off
from the standpoint of profitability. Price cuts are quickly and easily
matched by rivals, and once matched they lower revenues for all
firms unless industry price elasticity of demand is high enough. Ad-
vertising battles, on the other hand, may well expand demand or en-
hance the level of product differentiation in the industry for the ben-
efit of all firms.
18                                              COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

      Rivalry in some industries is characterized by such phrases as
"warlike," "bitter," or "cutthroat," whereas in other industries it
is termed "polite" or "gentlemanly." Intense rivalry is the result of
a number of interacting structural factors.

      Numerous or Equally Balanced Competitors. When firms are
numerous, the likelihood of mavericks is great and some firms may
habitually believe they can make moves without being noticed. Even
where there are relatively few firms, if they are relatively balanced in
terms of size and perceived resources, it creates instability because
they may be prone to fight each other and have the resources for sus-
tained and vigorous retaliation. When the industry is highly concen-
trated or dominated by one or a few firms, on the other hand, then
there is little mistaking relative strength, and the leader or leaders
can impose discipline as well as play a coordinative role in the indus-
try through devices like price leadership.
     In many industries foreign competitors, either exporting into
the industry or participating directly through foreign investment,
play an important role in industry competition. Foreign competi-
tors, although having some differences that will be noted later,
should be treated just like national competitors for purposes of
structural analysis.

     Slow Industry Growth. Slow industry growth turns competi-
tion into a market share game for firms seeking expansion. Market
share competition is a great deal more volatile than is the situation in
which rapid industry growth insures that firms can improve results
just by keeping up with the industry, and where all their financial
and managerial resources may be consumed by expanding with the
industry.

     High Fixed or Storage Costs. High fixed costs create strong
pressures for all firms to fill capacity which often lead to rapidly es-
calating price cutting when excess capacity is present. Many basic
materials like paper and aluminum suffer from this problem, for ex-
ample. The significant characteristic of costs is fixed costs relative to
value added, and not fixed costs as a proportion of total costs. Firms
purchasing a high proportion of costs in outside inputs (low value
added) may feel enormous pressures to fill capacity to break even,
despite the fact that the absolute proportion of fixed costs is low.
     A situation related to high fixed costs is one in which the prod-
uct, once produced, is very difficult or costly to store. Here firms
The Structural Analysis of Industries                                 19

will also be vulnerable to temptations to shade prices in order to in-
sure sales. This sort of pressure keeps profits low in industries like
lobster fishing and the manufacture of certain hazardous chemicals
and some service businesses.

     Lack of Differentiation or Switching Costs. Where the prod-
uct or service is perceived as a commodity or near commodity,
choice by the buyer is largely based on price and service, and pres-
sures for intense price and service competition result. These forms of
competition are particularly volatile, as has been discussed. Product
differentiation, on the other hand, creates layers of insulation
against competitive warfare because buyers have preferences and
loyalites to particular sellers. Switching costs, described earlier, have
the same effect.

     Capacity Augmented in Large Increments. Where economies
of scale dictate that capacity must be added in large increments, ca-
pacity additions can be chronically disruptive to the industry sup-
ply/demand balance, particularly where there is a risk of bunching
capacity additions. The industry may face recurring periods of over-
capacity and price cutting, like those that afflict the manufacture of
chlorine, vinyl chloride, and ammonium fertilizer. The conditions
leading to chronic overcapacity are discussed in Chapter 15.

      Diverse Competitors. Competitors diverse in strategies, ori-
gins, personalities, and relationships to their parent companies have
differing goals and differing strategies for how to compete and may
continually run head on into each other in the process. They may
have a hard time reading each other's intentions accurately and
agreeing on a set of "rules of the game" for the industry. Strategic
choices right for one competitor will be wrong for others.
      Foreign competitors often add a great deal of diversity to indus-
tries because of their differing circumstances and often differing
goals. Owner-operators of small manufacturing or service firms may
as well, because they may be satisfied with a subnormal rate of re-
turn on their invested capital to maintain the independence of self-
ownership, whereas such returns are unacceptable and may appear
irrational to a large publicly held competitor. In such an industry,
the posture of the small firms may limit the profitability of the larger
concern. Similarly, firms viewing a market as an outlet for excess ca-
pacity (e.g., in the case of dumping) will adopt policies contrary to
those of firms viewing the market as a primary one. Finally, differ-
20                                                     COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

ences in the relationship of competing business units to their corpo-
rate parents is an important source of diversity in an industry as well.
For example, a business unit that is part of a vertical chain of busi-
nesses in its corporate organization may well adopt different and
perhaps contradictory goals than a free-standing firm competing in
the same industry. Or a business unit that is a "cash COW" in its par-
ent company's portfolio of businesses will behave differently than
one that is being developed for long-run growth in view of a lack of
other opportunities in the parent. (Some techniques for identifying
diversity in competitors will be developed in Chapter 3.)

      High Strategic Stakes. Rivalry in an industry becomes even
more volatile if a number of firms have high stakes in achieving suc-
cess there. For example, a diversified firm may place great impor-
tance on achieving success in a particular industry in order to further
its overall corporate strategy. Or a foreign firm like Bosch, Sony, or
Philips may perceive a strong need to establish a solid position in the
U. S. market in order to build global prestige or technological credi-
bility. In such situations, the goals of these firms may not only be
diverse but even more destabilizing because they are expansionary
and involve potential willingness to sacrifice profitability. (Some
techniques for assessing strategic stakes will be developed in Chap-
ter 3.)

    High Exit Barriers. Exit barriers are economic, strategic, and
emotional factors that keep companies competing in businesses even
though they may be earning low or even negative returns on invest-
ment. The major sources7 of exit barriers are the following:
        Specialized assets: assets highly specialized to the particular
        business or location have low liquidation values or high costs
        of transfer or conversion.
        Fixed costs of exit: these include labor agreements, resettle-
        ment costs, maintaining capabilities for spare parts, and so
        on.
        Strategic interrelationships: interrelationships between the
        business unit and others in the company in terms of image,
        marketing ability, access to financial markets, shared facil-
        ities, and so on. They cause the firm to attach high strategic
        importance to being in the business.
'For a fuller treatment see Chapter 12, which also illustrates how diagnosing exit
 barriers is crucial in developing strategies for declining industries.
The Structural Analysis of Industries                                 21

       Emotional barriers: management's unwillingness to make eco-
       nomically justified exit decisions is caused by identification
       with the particular business, loyalty to employees, fear for
       one's own career, pride, and other reasons.
       Government and social restrictions: these involve government
       denial or discouragement of exit out of concern for job loss
       and regional economic effects; they are particularly common
       outside the United States.
     When exit barriers are high, excess capacity does not leave the
industry, and companies that lose the competitive battle do not give
up. Rather, they grimly hang on and, because of their weakness,
have to resort to extreme tactics. The profitability of the entire in-
dustry can be persistently low as a result.


      The factors that determine the intensity of competitive rivalry
can and do change. A very common example is the change in industry
growth brought about by industry maturity. As an industry matures
its growth rate declines, resulting in intensified rivalry, declining
profits, and (often) a shake-out. In the booming recreational vehicle
industry of the early 1970s nearly every producer did well, but slow
growth since then has eliminated the high returns, except for the
strongest competitors, not to mention forcing many of the weaker
companies out. The same story has been played out in industry after
industry: snowmobiles, aerosol packaging, and sports equipment are
just a few examples.
      Another common change in rivalry occurs when an acquisition
introduces a very different personality to an industry, as has been
the case with Philip Morris' acquisition of Miller Beer and Procter
and Gamble's acquisition of Charmin Paper Company. Also, tech-
nological innovation can boost the level of fixed costs in the produc-
tion process and raise the volatility of rivalry, as it did in the shift
from batch to continuous-line photofinishing in the 1960s.
      Although a company must live with many of the factors that
determine the intensity of industry rivalry-because they are built in-
to industry economics-it may have some latitude in improving mat-
ters through strategic shifts. For example, it may try to raise buyers'
switching costs by providing engineering assistance to customers to
design its product into their operations or to make them dependent
for technical advice. Or the firm can try to raise product differentia-
tion through new kinds of services, marketing innovations, or prod-
22                                                   COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

uct changes. Focusing selling efforts on the fastest growing segments
of the industry or on market areas with the lowest fixed costs can
reduce the impact of industry rivalry. Also, if it is feasible a com-
pany can try to avoid confronting competitors with high exit barriers
and can thus sidestep involvement in bitter price cutting, or it can
lower its own exit barriers. (Competitive moves will be explored in
detail in Chapter 5.)
       EXITBARRIERS AND E NTRY BARRIERS
     Although exit barriers and entry barriers are conceptually dif-
ferent, their joint level is an important aspect of the analysis of an
industry. Often exit and entry barriers are related. Substantial econ-
omies of scale in production, for example, are usually associated
with specialized assets, as is the presence of proprietary technology.
     Taking the simplified case in which exit and entry barriers can
be either high or low:
                                            Exit Barriers

                                   Low                         High


                                Low, stable                 Low, risky
                      Low                                     returns
                                  returns

     Entry Barriers
                               High, stable                 High, risky
                      High
                                 returns                     returns



FIGURE 1-2. Barriers and Profitability

The best case from the viewpoint of industry profits is one in which
entry barriers are high but exit barriers are low. Here entry will be
deterred, and unsuccessful competitors will leave the industry. When
both entry and exit barriers are high, profit potential is high but is
usually accompanied by more risk. Although entry is deterred, un-
successful firms will stay and fight in the industry.
     The case of low entry and exit barriers is merely unexciting, but
the worst case is one in which entry barriers are low and exit barriers
are high. Here entry is easy and will be attracted by upturns in eco-
nomic conditions or other temporary windfalls. However, capacity
will not leave the industry when results deteriorate. As a result
The Structural Analysis of Industries                                              23

capacity stacks up in the industry and profitability is usually chron-
ically poor. An industry might be in this unfortunate position, for
example, if suppliers or lenders will readily finance entry, but once
in, the firm faces substantial fixed financing costs.


     PRESSURE FROM SUBSTITUTE PRODUCTS

      All firms in an industry are competing, in a broad sense, with
industries producing substitute products. Substitutes limit the poten-
tial returns of an industry by placing a ceiling on the prices firms in
the industry can profitably ~ h a r g e The
                                        . ~ more attractive the price-
performance alternative offered by substitutes, the firmer the lid on
industry profits.
      Sugar producers confronted with the large-scale com,mercializa-
tion of high fructose corn syrup, a sugar substitute, are learning this
lesson today, as have the producers of acetylene and rayon who
faced extreme competition from alternative, lower-cost materials for
many of their respective applications. Substitutes not only limit
profits in normal times, but they also reduce the bonanza an industry
can reap in boom times. In 1978 the producers of fiberglass insula-
tion enjoyed unprecedented demand as a result of high energy costs
and severe winter weather. But the industry's ability to raise prices
was tempered by the plethora of insulation substitutes, including cel-
lulose, rock wool, and styrofoam. These substitutes are bound to be-
come an ever stronger limit on profitability once the current round
of plant additions has boosted capacity enough to meet demand (and
then some).
      Identifying substitute products is a matter of searching for
other products that can perform the same function as the product of
the industry. Sometimes doing so can be a subtle task, and one which
leads the analyst into businesses seemingly far removed from the in-
dustry. securities brokers, for example, are being increasingly con-
fronted with such substitutes as real estate, insurance, money market
funds, and other ways for the individual to invest capital, accen-
tuated in importance by the poor performance of the equity markets.
      Position vis-a-vis substitute products may well be a matter of
collective industry actions. For example, although advertising by
one firm may not be enough to bolster the industry's position against
'The impact of substitutes can be summarized as the industry's overall elasticity of
 demand.
24                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

a substitute, heavy and sustained advertising by all industry partici-
pants may well improve the industry's collective position. Similar
arguments apply to collective response in areas like product quality
improvement, marketing efforts, providing greater product avail-
ability, and so on.
     Substitute products that deserve the most attention are those
that (1) are subject to trends improving their price-performance
tradeoff with the industry's product, or (2) are produced by indus-
tries earning high profits. In the latter case, substitutes often come
rapidly into play if some development increases competition in their
industries and causes price reduction or performance improvement.
Analysis of such trends can be important in deciding whether to try
to head off a substitute strategically or to plan strategy with it as
inevitably a key force. In the security guard industry, for example,
electronic alarm systems represent a potent substitute. Moreover,
they can only become more important since labor-intensive guard
services face inevitable cost escalation, whereas electronic systems
are highly likely to improve in performance and decline in costs.
Here, the appropriate response of security guard firms is probably to
offer packages of guards and electronic systems, based on a redefini-
tion of the security guard as a skilled operator, rather than to try to
outcompete electronic systems across the board.


     BARGAINING POWER OF BUYERS

     Buyers compete with the industry by forcing down prices, bar-
gaining for higher quality or more services, and playing competitors
against each other-all at the expense of industry profitability. The
power of each of the industry's important buyer groups depends on
a number of characteristics of its market situation and on the rel-
ative importance of its purchases from the industry compared with
its overall business. A buyer group is powerful if the following cir-
cumstances hold true:
     It is concentrated or purchases large volumes relative to seller
sales. If a large portion of sales is purchased by a given buyer this
raises the importance of the buyer's business in results. Large-
volume buyers are particularly potent forces if heavy fixed costs
characterize the industry-as they do in corn refining and bulk
chemicals, for example-and raise the stakes to keep capacity filled.
The Structural Analysis of Industries                                            25

       The products it purchases from the industry represent a signifi-
cant fraction of the buyer's costs or purchases. Here buyers are'
prone to expend the resources necessary to shop for a favorable price
and purchase selectively. When the product sold by the industry in
question is a small fraction of buyers' costs, buyers are usually much
less price sensitive.
      The products it purchases from the industry are standard or
undifferentiated. Buyers, sure that they can always find alternative
suppliers, may play one company against another, as they do in
aluminum extrusion.
      It faces few switching costs. Switching costs, defined earlier,
lock the buyer to particular sellers. Conversely, the buyer's power is
enhanced if the seller faces switching costs.
      It earns lowprofits. Low profits create great incentives to lower
purchasing costs. Suppliers to Chrysler, for example, are complain-
ing that they are being pressured for superior terms. Highly profit-
able buyers, however, are generally less price sensitive (that is, of
course, if the item does not represent a large fraction of their costs)
and may take a longer run view toward preserving the health of their
suppliers.
      Buyers pose a credible threat of backward integration. If buyers
either are partially integrated or pose a credible threat of backward
integration, they are in a position to demand bargaining conces-
s i o n ~The
          . ~ major automobile producers, General Motors and Ford,
are well known for using the threat of self-manufacture as a bargain-
ing lever. They engage in the practice of tapered integration, that is,
producing some of their needs for a given component in-house and
purchasing the rest from outside suppliers. Not only is their threat of
further integration particularly credible, but also partial manufac-
ture in-house gives them a detailed knowledge of costs which is a
great aid in negotiation. Buyer power can be partially neutralized
when firms in the industry offer a threat of forward integration into
the buyers' industry.
      The industry's product is unimportant to the quality of the
buyers'products or services. When the quality of the buyers' prod-
ucts is very much affected by the industry's product, buyers are gen-
erally less price sensitive. Industries in which this situation exists in-
91f buyers' motivations to integrate are based more on safety of supply or other
 non-price factors this may imply that firms in the industry must offer great price
concessions to forestall integration.
26                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

clude oil-field equipment, where a malfunction can lead to large
losses (witness the enormous cost of the recent failure of a blowout
preventor in a Mexican offshore oil well), and enclosures for elec-
tronic medical and test instruments, where the quality of the en-
closure can greatly influence the user's impression about the quality
of the equipment inside.
      The buyer has full information. Where the buyer has full in-
formation about demand, actual market prices, and even supplier
costs, this usually yields the buyer greater bargaining leverage than
when information is poor. With full information, the buyer is in a
greater position to insure that it receives the most favorable prices
offered to others and can counter suppliers' claims that their viabil-
ity is threatened.
      Most of these sources of buyer power can be attributed to con-
sumers as well as to industrial and commercial buyers; only a modifi-
cation of the frame of reference is necessary. For example, consumers
tend to be more price sensitive if they are purchasing products that
are undifferentiated, expensive relative to their incomes, or of a sort
where quality is not particularly important to them.
      The buyer power of wholesalers and retailers is determined by
the same rules, with one important addition. Retailers can gain signi-
ficant bargaining power over manufacturers when they can influence
consumers' purchasing decisions, as they do in audio components,
jewelry, appliances, sporting goods, and other products. Whole-
salers can gain bargaining power, similarly, if they can influence the
purchase decisions of the retailers or other firms to which they sell.


     As the factors described above change with time or as a result of
a company's strategic decisions, naturally the power of buyers rises
or falls. In the ready-to-wear clothing industry, for example, as the
buyers (department stores and clothing stores) have become more
concentrated and control has passed to large chains, the industry has
come under increasing pressure and has suffered falling margins.
The industry has been unable to differentiate its product or engender
switching costs that lock in its buyers enough to neutralize these
trends, and the influx of imports has not helped.
     A company's choice of buyer groups to sell to should be viewed
as a crucial strategic decision. A company can improve its strategic
posture by finding buyers who possess the least power to influence it
adversely-in other words, buyer selection. Rarely do all the buyer
The Structural Analysis of Industries                                 27

groups a company sells to enjoy equal power. Even if a company
sells to a single industry, segments usually exist within that industry
which exercise less power (and that are therefore less price sensitive)
than others. For example, the replacement market for most products
is less price sensitive than the OEM market. (I will explore buyer
selection as a strategy more fully in Chapter 6 . )


     BARGAINING POWER OF SUPPLIERS

      Suppliers can exert bargaining power over participants in an in-
 dustry by threatening to raise prices or reduce the quality of pur-
 chased goods and services. Powerful suppliers can thereby squeeze
 profitability out of an industry unable to recover cost increases in its
 own prices. By raising their prices, for example, chemical companies
 have contributed to the erosion of profitability of contract aerosol
 packagers because the packagers, facing intense competition from
 self-manufacture by their buyers, accordingly have limited freedom
 to raise their prices.
      The conditions making suppliers powerful tend to mirror those
 making buyers powerful. A supplier group is powerful if the follow-
ing apply:
      It is dominated by a few companies and is more concentrated
 than the industry it sells to. Suppliers selling to more fragmented
buyers will usually be able to exert considerable influence in prices,
quality, and terms.
      It is not obliged to contend with other substitute products for
sale to the industry. The power of even large, powerful suppliers can
be checked if they compete with substitutes. For example, suppliers
producing alternative sweeteners compete sharply for many applica-
tions even though individual firms are large relative to individual
buyers.
      The industry is not an important customer of the supplier
group. When suppliers sell to a number of industries and a particular
industry does not represent a significant fraction of sales, suppliers
are much more prone to exert power. If the industry is an important
customer, suppliers' fortunes will be closely tied to the industry and
they will want to protect it through reasonable pricing and assistance
in activities like R&D and lobbying.
      The suppliers'product is an important input to the buyer's bus-
iness. Such an input is important to the success of the buyer's man-
28                                             COMPETITIVESTRATEGY

 ufacturing process or product quality. This raises the supplier
 power. This is particularly true where the input is not storable, thus
enabling the buyer to build up stocks of inventory.
      The supplier group's products are differentiated or it has built
up switching costs. Differentiation or switching costs facing the
buyers cut off their options to play one supplier against another. If
the supplier faces switching costs the effect is the reverse.
      The supplier group poses a credible threat of forward integra-
tion. This provides a check against the industry's ability to improve
the terms on which it purchases.
      We usually think of suppliers as other firms, but labor must be
recognized as a supplier as well, and one that exerts great power in
many industries. There is substantial empirical evidence that scarce,
highly skilled employees and/or tightly unionized labor can bargain
away a significant fraction of potential profits in an industry. The
principles in determining the potential power of labor as a supplier
are similar to those just discussed. The key additions in assessing the
power of labor are its degree of organization, and whether the sup-
ply of scarce varieties of labor can expand. Where the labor force is
tightly organized or the supply of scarce labor is constrained from
growing, the power of labor can be high.
     The conditions determining suppliers' power are not only sub-
ject to change but also often out of the firm's control. However, as
with buyers' power the firm can sometimes improve its situation
through strategy. It can enhance its threat of backward integration,
seek to eliminate switching costs, and the like. (Chapter 6 will ex-
plore some implications of suppliers' power for purchasing strategy
more fully.)


      Government has been discussed primarily in terms of its possi-
ble impact on entry barriers, but in the 1970s and 1980s government
at all levels must be recognized as potentially influencing many if not
all aspects of industry structure both directly and indirectly. In many
industries, government is a buyer or supplier and can influence in-
dustry competition by the policies it adopts. For example, govern-
ment plays a crucial role as a buyer of defense-related products and
as a supplier of timber through the Forest Service's control of vast
timber reserves in the western United States. Many times govern-
ment's role as a supplier or buyer is determined more by political
The Structural Analysis of Industries                                29

factors than by' economic circumstances, and this is probably a fact
of life. Government regulations can also set limits on the behavior of
firms as suppliers or buyers.
      Government can also affect the position of an industry with
substitutes through regulations, subsidies, or other means. The U. S.
government is strongly promoting solar heating, for example, using
tax incentives and research grants. Government decontrol of natural
gas is quickly eliminating acetylene as a chemical feedstock. Safety
and pollution standards affect relative cost and quality of substi-
tutes. Government can also affect rivalry among competitors by in-
fluencing industry growth, the cost structure through regulations,
and so on.
     Thus no structural analysis is complete without a diagnosis of
how present and future government policy, at all levels, will affect
structural conditions. For purposes of strategic analysis it is usually
more illuminating to consider how government affects competition
through the five competitive forces than to consider it as a force in
and of itself. However, strategy may well involve treating govern-
ment as an actor to be influenced.


Structural Analysis and Competitive Strategy

     Once the forces affecting competition in an industry and their
underlying causes have been diagnosed, the firm is in a position to
identify its strengths and weaknesses relative to the industry. From a
strategic standpoint, the crucial strengths and weaknesses are the
firm's posture vis-a-vis the underlying causes of each competitive
force. Where does the firm stand against substitutes? Against the
sources of entry barriers? In coping with rivalry from established
competitors?
     An effective competitive strategy takes offensive or defensive
action in order to create a defendable position against the five com-
petitive forces. Broadly, this involves a number of possible ap-
proaches:
       positioning the firm so that its capabilities provide the best
       defense against the existing array of competitive forces;
       influencing the balance of forces through strategic moves,
       thereby improving the firm's relative position; or
30                                              COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

        anticipating shifts in the factors underlying the forces and re-
        sponding to them, thereby exploiting change by choosing a
        strategy appropriate to the new competitive balance before
        rivals recognize it.


     The first approach takes the structure of the industry as given
and matches the company's strengths and weaknesses to it. Strategy
can be viewed as building defenses against the competitive forces or
as finding positions in the industry where the forces are weakest.
     Knowledge of the company's capabilities and of the causes of
the competitive forces will highlight the areas where the company
should confront competition and where avoid it. If the company is a
low-cost producer, for example, it may choose to sell to powerful
buyers while it takes care to sell them only products not vulnerable to
competition from substitutes.


     A company can devise a strategy that takes the offensive. This
posture is designed to do more than merely cope with the forces
themselves; it is meant to alter their causes.
     Innovations in marketing can raise brand identification or
otherwise differentiate the product. Capital investments in large-
scale facilities or vertical integration affect entry barriers. The bal-
ance of forces is partly a result of external factors and partly within a
company's control. Structural analysis can be used to identify the
key factors driving competition in the particular industry and thus
the places where strategic action to influence the balance will yield
the greatest payoff.


     Industry evolution is important strategically because evolution,
of course, brings with it changes in the structural sources of competi-
tion. In the familiar product life-cycle pattern of industry develop-
ment, for example, growth rates change, advertising is said to de-
cline as the business becomes more mature, and the companies tend
to integrate vertically.
     These trends are not so important in themselves; what is critical
is whether they affect the structural sources of competition. Con-
sider vertical integration. In the maturing minicomputer industry,
The Structural Analysis of Industries                                  31

extensive vertical integration"is taking place, both in manufacturing
and in software development. This very significant trend is greatly
 raising economies of scale as well as the amount of capital necessary
to compete in the industry. This in turn is raising barriers to entry
and may drive some smaller competitors out of the industry once
growth levels off.
      Obviously, the trends holding the highest priority from a stra-
tegic standpoint are those that affect the most important sources of
competition in the industry and those that bring new structural fac-
tors to the forefront. In contract aerosol packaging, for example, the
trend toward less product differentiation is now dominant. This
trend has increased buyers' powers, lowered the barriers to entry,
and intensified rivalry.
      Structural analysis can be used to predict the eventual profit-
ability of an industry. In long-range planning the task is to examine
each competitive force, forecast the magnitude of each underlying
cause, and then construct a composite picture of the probable profit
potential of the industry.
      The outcome of such an exercise may differ a great deal from
the existing industry structure. Today, for example, the solar heating
business is populated by dozens and perhaps hundreds of compa-
nies, none with a major market position. Entry is easy, and competi-
tors are battling to establish solar heating as a superior substitute for
conventional heating methods.
      The potential of solar heating will depend largely on the shape
of the future barriers to entry, the improvement of the industry's po-
sition relative to substitutes, the ultimate intensity of competition,
and the power captured by buyers and suppliers. These character-
istics will, in turn, be influenced by such factors as the likelihood of
establishment of brand identities, whether significant economies of
scale or experience curves in equipment manufacture will be created
by technological change, what will be the ultimate capital costs to
enter, and the eventual extent of fixed costs in production facilities.
(The process of industry structural evolution and the forces driving
it will be explored in detail in Chapter 8.)


     The framework for analyzing industry competition can be used
in setting diversification strategy. It provides a guide for answering
the extremely difficult question inherent in diversification decisions:
32                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

"What is the potential of this business?" The framework may allow
a company to spot an industry with a good future before this good
future is reflected in the prices of acquisition candidates.
     The framework can also help identify particularly valuable
types of relatedness in diversification. For example, relatedness that
allows the firm to overcome key entry barriers through shared func-
tions or pre-existing relationships with distribution channels can be a
fruitful basis for diversification. All these issues will be explored in
more detail in Chapter 16.


Structural Analysis and Industry Definition

      A great deal of attention has been directed at defining the rele-
vant industry as a crucial step in competitive strategy formulation.
 Numerous writers have also stressed the need to look beyond prod-
 uct to function in defining a business, beyond national boundaries to
potential international competition, and beyond the ranks of one's
competitors today to those that may become competitors tomorrow.
As a result of these urgings, the proper definition of a company's in-
dustry or industries has become an endlessly debated subject. An im-
portant motive in this debate is the fear of overlooking latent sources
of competition that may someday threaten the industry.
      Structural analysis, by focusing broadly on competition well be-
yond existing rivals, should reduce the need for debates on where to
draw industry boundaries. Any definition of an industry is essential-
ly a choice of where to draw the line between established competitors
and substitute products, between existing firms and potential en-
trants, and between existing firms and suppliers and buyers. Draw-
ing these lines is inherently a matter of degree that has little to do
with the choice of strategy.
      If these broad sources of competition are recognized, however,
and their relative impact assessed, then where the lines are actually
drawn becomes more or less irrelevant to strategy formulation. La-
tent sources of competition will not be overlooked, nor will key
dimensions of competition.
      Definition of an industry is not the same as definition of where
the firm wants to compete (defining its business), however. Just be-
cause the industry is defined broadly, for example, does not mean
that the firm can or should compete broadly; and there may be
The Structural Analysis of Industries                                33

strong benefits to competing in a group of related industries, as has
been discussed. Decoupling industry definition and that of the busi-
nesses the firm wants to be in will go far in eliminating needless con-
fusion in drawing industry boundaries.


     This chapter has identified a large number of factors that can
potentially have an impact on industry cornpetiti~n.'~       Not all of
them will be important in any one industry. Rather the framework
can be used to identify rapidly what are the crucial structural fea-
tures determining the nature of competition in a particular industry.
This is where the bulk of the analytical and strategic attention should
be focused.
Generic Competitive
Strategies




Chapter 1 described competitive strategy as taking offensive or de-
fensive actions to create a defendable position in an industry, to cope
successfully with the five competitive forces and thereby yield a su-
perior return on investment for the firm. Firms have discovered
many different approaches to this end, and the best strategy for a
given firm is ultimately a unique construction reflecting its particular
circumstances. However, at the broadest level we can identify three
internally consistent generic strategies (which can be used singly or in
combination) for creating such a defendable position in the long run
and outperforming competitors in an industry. This chapter de-
scribes the generic strategies and explores some of the requirements
and risks of each. Its purpose is to develop some introductory con-
cepts that can be built upon in subsequent analysis. Succeeding chap-
ters of this book will have much more to say about how to translate
these broad generic strategies into more specific strategies in par-
ticular kinds of industry situations.
34
Generic Competitive Strategies



Three Generic Strategies

      In coping with the five competitive forces, there are three poten-
tially successful generic strategic approaches to outperforming other
firms in an industry:
     1. overall cost leadership
     2 differentiation
     3. focus.
Sometimes the firm can successfully pursue more than one approach
as its primary target, though this is rarely possible as will be dis-
cussed further. Effectively implementing any of these generic strate-
gies usually requires total commitment and supporting organiza-
tional arrangements that are diluted if there is more than one
primary target. The generic strategies are approaches to outperform-
ing competitors in the industry; in some industries structure will
mean that all firms can earn high returns, whereas in others, success
with one of the generic strategies may be necessary just t o obtain ac-
ceptable returns in an absolute sense.


    OVERALL COST LEADERSHIP

     The first strategy, an increasingly common one in the 1970s be-
cause of popularization of the experience curve concept, is to achieve
overall cost leadership in an industry through a set of functional pol-
icies aimed at this basic objective. Cost leadership requires aggres-
sive construction of efficient-scale facilities, vigorous pursuit of cost
reductions from experience, tight cost and overhead control, avoid-
ance of marginal customer accounts, and cost minimization in areas
like R&D, service, sales force, advertising, and so on. A great deal of
managerial attention to cost control is necessary to achieve these
aims. Low cost relative to competitors becomes the theme running
through the entire strategy, though quality, service, and other areas
cannot be ignored.
     Having a low-cost position yields the firm above-average re-
turns in its industry despite the presence of strong competitive
forces. Its cost position gives the firm a defense against rivalry from
                                                COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

competitors, because its lower costs mean that it can still earn re-
turns after its competitors have competed away their profits through
rivalry. A low-cost position defends the firm against powerful buy-
ers because buyers can exert power only to drive down prices to the
level of the next most efficient competitor. Low cost provides a de-
fense against powerful suppliers by providing more flexibility to
cope with input cost increases. The factors that lead to a low-cost po-
sition usually also provide substantial entry barriers in terms of scale
economies or cost advantages. Finally, a low-cost position usually
places the firm in a favorable position vis-a-vis substitutes relative to
its competitors in the industry. Thus a low-cost position protects the
firm against all five competitive forces because bargaining can only
continue to erode profits until those of the next most efficient com-
petitor are eliminated, and because the less efficient competitors will
suffer first in the face of competitive pressures.
     Achieving a low overall cost position often requires a high rel-
ative market share or other advantages, such as favorable access to
raw materials. It may well require designing products for ease in man-
ufacturing, maintaining a wide line of related products to spread
costs, and serving all major customer groups in order to build vol-
ume. In turn, implementing the low-cost strategy may require heavy
up-front capital investment in state-of-the art equipment, aggressive
pricing, and start-up losses to build market share. High market share
may in turn allow economies in purchasing which lower costs even
further. Once achieved, the low-cost position provides high margins
which can be reinvested in new equipment and modern facilities in
order to maintain cost leadership. Such reinvestment may well be a
prerequisite to sustaining a low-cost position.
     The cost leadership strategy seems to be the cornerstone of
Briggs and Stratton's success in small horsepower gasoline engines,
where it holds a 50 percent worldwide share, and Lincoln Electric's
success in arc welding equipment and supplies. Other firms known
for successful application of cost leadership strategies to a number
of businesses are Emerson Electric, Texas Instruments, Black and
Decker, and Du Pont.
     A cost leadership strategy can sometimes revolutionize an indus-
try in which the historical bases of competition have been otherwise
and competitors are ill-prepared either perceptually or economically
to take the steps necessary for cost minimization. Harnischfeger is in
the midst of a daring attempt to revolutionize the rough-terrain
crane industry in 1979. Starting from a 15 percent market share,
Generic Competitive Strategies                                             37

Harnischfeger redesigned its cranes for easy manufacture and serv-
ice using modularized components, configuration changes, and re-
duced material content. It then established subassembly areas and a
conveyorized assembly line, a notable departure from industry
norms. It ordered parts in large volumes to save costs. All this al-
lowed the company to offer an acceptable quality product and drop
prices by 15 percent. Harnischfeger's market share has grown rapid-
ly to 25 percent and is continuing to grow. Says Willis Fisher, gener-
al manager of Harnischfeger's Hydraulic Equipment Division:
     We didn't set out to develop a machine significantly better than
     anyone else but we did want to develop one that was truly simple
     to manufacture and was priced, intentionally, as a low cost ma-
     chine.'
Competitors are grumbling that Harnischfeger has "bought" mar-
ket share with lower margins, a charge that the company denies.


     DIFFERENTIATION

      The second generic strategy is one of differentiating the product
or service offering of the firm, creating something that is perceived
industrywide as being unique. Approaches to differentiating can
take many forms: design or brand image (Fieldcrest in top of the line
towels and linens; Mercedes in automobiles), technology (Hyster in
lift trucks; Macintosh in stereo components; Coleman in camping
equipment), features (Jenn-Air in electric ranges); customer service
(Crown Cork and Seal in metal cans), dealer network (Caterpillar
Tractor in construction equipment), or other dimensions. Ideally,
the firm differentiates itself along several dimensions. Caterpillar
Tractor, for example, is known not only for its dealer network and
excellent spare parts availability but also for its extremely high-qual-
ity durable products, all of which are crucial in heavy equipment
where downtime is very expensive. It should be stressed that the dif-
ferentiation strategy does not allow the firm to ignore costs, but
rather they are not the primary strategic target.
      Differentiation, if achieved, is a viable strategy for earning
above-average returns in an industry because it creates a defensible
position for coping with the five competitive forces, albeit in a dif-
'"Harnischfeger'sDramatic Pickup in Cranes," Business Week, August 13, 1979.
38                                              COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

 ferent way than cost leadership. Differentiation provides insulation
against competitive rivalry because of brand loyalty by customers
and resulting lower sensitivity to price. It also increases margins,
which avoids the need for a low-cost position. The resulting custo-
mer loyalty and the need for a competitor to overcome uniqueness
provide entry barriers. Differentiation yields higher margins with
which to deal with supplier power, and it clearly mitigates buyer
power, since buyers lack comparable alternatives and are thereby
less price sensitive. Finally, the firm that has differentiated itself to
achieve customer loyalty should be better positioned vis-a-vis substi-
tutes than its competitors.
     Achieving differentiation may sometimes preclude gaining a
high market share. It often requires a perception of exclusivity,
which is incompatible with high market share. More commonly,
however, achieving differentiation will imply a trade-off with cost
position if the activities required in creating it are inherently costly,
such as extensive research, product design, high quality materials, or
intensive customer support. Whereas customers industrywide ac-
knowledge the superiority of the firm, not all customers will be will-
ing or able to pay the required higher prices (though most are in
industries like earthmoving equipment where despite high prices
Caterpillar has a dominant market share). In other businesses, dif-
ferentiation may not be incompatible with relatively low costs and
comparable prices to those of competitors.


     FOCUS

      The final generic strategy is focusing on a particular buyer
group, segment of the product line, or geographic market; as with
differentiation, focus may take many forms. Although the low cost
and differentiation strategies are aimed at achieving their objectives
industrywide, the entire focus strategy is built around serving a par-
ticular target very well, and each functional policy is developed with
this in mind. The strategy rests on the premise that the firm is thus
able to serve its narrow strategic target more effectively or efficiently
than competitors who are competing more broadly. As a result, the
firm achieves either differentiation from better meeting the needs of
the particular target, or lower costs in serving this target, or both.
Even though the focus strategy does not achieve low cost or differen-
tiation from the perspective of the market as a whole, it does achieve
Generic Competitive Strategies                                         39

one or both of these positions vis-a-vis its narrow market target. The
difference among the three generic strategies are illustrated in fig-
ure 2-1.
      The firm achieving focus may also potentially earn above-aver-
age returns for its industry. Its focus means that the firm either has a
low cost position with its strategic target, high differentiation, or
both. As we have discussed in the context of cost leadership and dif-
ferentiation, these positions provide defenses against each competi-
tive force. Focus may also be used to select targets least vulnerable to
substitutes or where competitors are the weakest.
      For example, Illinois Tool Works has focused on specialty mar-
kets for fasteners where it can design products for particular buyer
needs and create switching costs. Although many buyers are uninter-
ested in these services, some are. Fort Howard Paper focuses on a
narrow range of industrial-grade papers, avoiding consumer prod-
ucts vulnerable to advertising battles and rapid introductions of new
products. Porter Paint focuses on the professional painter rather
than the do-it-yourself market, building its strategy around serving
the professional through free paint-matching services, rapid delivery
of as little as a gallon of needed paint to the worksite, and free coffee
rooms designed to provide a home for professional painters at fac-
tory stores. An example of a focus strategy that achieves a low-cost

 FIGURE 2-1. Three Generic Strategies
                                   STRATEGIC ADVANTAGE

                        Uniqueness Perceived
                          by the Customer          Low Cost Position




                                                   OVERALL
                                               COST LEADERSHIP


I-
*
Q

$
       Particular                          FOCUS
     Segment Only

                    1
                                                 COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

position in serving its particular target is seen in Martin-Brower, the
third largest food distributor in the United States. Martin-Brower
has reduced its customer list to just eight leading fast-food chains.
Its entire strategy is based on meeting the specialized needs of the
customers, stocking only their narrow product lines, order taking
procedures geared to their purchasing cycles, locating warehouses
based on their locations, and intensely controlling and computeriz-
ing record keeping. Although Martin-Brower is not the low-cost dis-
tributor in serving the market as a whole, it is in serving its particular
segment. Martin-Brower has been rewarded with rapid growth and
above-average profitability.
     The focus strategy always implies some limitations on the over-
all market share achievable. Focus necessarily involves a trade-off
between profitability and sales volume. Like the differentiate strat-
egy, it may or may not involve a trade-off with overall cost position.


    OTHER REQUIREMENTS OF THE GENERIC STRATEGIES

     The three generic strategies differ in dimensions other than the
functional differences noted above. Implementing them successfully
requires different resources and skills. The generic strategies also im-
ply differing organizational arrangements, control procedures, and
inventive systems. As a result, sustained commitment to one of the
strategies as the primary target is usually necessary to achieve suc-
cess. Some common implications of the generic strategies in these
areas are as follows:


GENERIC STRATEGY       SKILLS AND RESOURCES            REQUIREMENTS
Overall Cost       Substained ca~italin-        Tiaht cost control
  Leadership          vestment and access       ~ G ~ u e ndetailed
                                                            t,      con-
                      to capital                  trol reports
                   Process engineering          Structured organization
                      skills                      and responsibilities
                   Intense supervision of       Incentives based on
                      labor                       meeting strict quanti-
                   Products designed for          tative targets
                      ease in manufacture
                   Low-cost distribution
                      system
Generic Competitive Strategies                                           41




Differentiation     Strong marketing           Strong coordination
                       abilities                 among functions in
                    Product engineering           R&D, product develop-
                    Creative flair                ment, and marketing
                    Strong capability in       Subjective measurement
                       basic research            and incentives in-
                    Corporate reputation for     stead of quantitative
                      quality or technolog-       measures
                       ical leadership         Amenities to attract
                    Long tradition in the         highly skilled labor,
                       industry or unique        scientists, or creative
                      combination of skills       people
                      drawn from other busi-
                      nesses
                    Strong cooperation from
                       channels
Focus               Combination of the         Combination of the
                      above policies di-         above policies di-
                      rected at the partic-      rected at the partic-
                      ular strategic target      ular strategic target

     The generic strategies may also require different styles of lead-
ership and can translate into very different corporate cultures and
atmospheres. Different sorts of people will be attracted.


Stuck in the Middle

      The three generic strategies are alternative, viable approaches to
dealing with the competitive forces. The converse of the previous
discussion is that the firm failing to develop its strategy in at least
one of the three directions-a firm that is "stuck in the middle9'-is
in an extremely poor strategic situation. This firm lacks the market
share, capital investment, and resolve to play the low-cost game, the
industrywide differentiation necessary to obviate the need for a low-
cost position, or the focus to create differentiation or a low-cost po-
sition in a more limited sphere.
      The firm stuck in the middle is almost guaranteed low profita-
bility. It either loses the high-volume customers who demand low
42                                               COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

  prices or must bid away its profits to get this business away from
 low-cost firms. Yet it also loses high-margin businesses-the
 cream-to the firms who are focused on high-margin targets or have
 achieved differentiation overall. The firm stuck in the middle also
 probably suffers from a blurred corporate culture and a conflicting
 set of organizational arrangements and motivation system.
       Clark Equipment may well be stuck in the middle in the lift
 truck industry in which it has the leading overall U.S. and worldwide
 market share. Two Japanese producers, Toyota and Komatsu, have
 adopted strategies of serving only the high-volume segments, mini-
 mized production costs, and rock-bottom prices, also taking advan-
 tage of lower Japanese steel prices, which more than offset transpor-
 tation costs. Clark's greater worldwide share (18 percent; 33 percent
 in the United States) does not give it clear cost leadership given its
 very wide product line and lack of low-cost orientation. Yet with its
 wide line and lack of full emphasis to technology Clark has been un-
 able to achieve the technological reputation and product differenti-
 ation of Hyster, which has focused on larger lift trucks and spent
 aggressively on R&D. As a result, Clark's returns appear to be sig-
 nificantly lower than Hyster's, and Clark has been losing g r o ~ n d . ~
      The firm stuck in the middle must make a fundamental strategic
 decision. Either it must take the steps necessary to achieve cost lead-
ership or at least cost parity, which usually involve aggressive invest-
 ments to modernize and perhaps the necessity to buy market share,
or it must orient itself to a particular target (focus) or achieve some
uniqueness (differentiation). The latter two options may well involve
shrinking in market share and even in absolute sales. The choice
among these options is necessarily based on the firm's capabilities
and limitations. Successfully executing each generic strategy involves
different resources, strengths, organizational arrangements, and
managerial style, as has been discussed. Rarely is a firm suited for all
three.
      Once stuck in the middle, it usually takes time and sustained ef-
fort to extricate the firm from this unenviable position. Yet there
seems to be a tendency for firms in difficulty to flip back and forth
over time among the generic strategies. Given the potential inconsist-
encies involved in pursuing these three strategies, such an approach
is almost always doomed to failure.
      These concepts suggest a number of possible relationships be-
tween market share and profitability. In some industries, the prob-
lSee Wertheim (1977).
Generic Competitive Strategies                                     43

lem of getting caught in the middle may mean that the smaller (fo-
cused or differentiated) firms and the largest (cost leadership) firms
are the most profitable, and the medium-sized firms are the least
profitable. This implies a U-shaped relationship between profitabil-
ity and market share, as shown in Figure 2-2. The relationship in
Figure 2-2 appears to hold in the U.S. fractional horsepower electric
motor business. There GE and Emerson have large market shares
and strong cost positions, GE also having a strong technological rep-
utation. Both are believed to earn high returns in motors. Baldor and
Gould (Century) have adopted focused strategies, Baldor oriented
toward the distributor channel and Could toward particular cus-
tomer segments. The profitability of both is also believed to be good.
Franklin is in an intermediate position, with neither low cost nor fo-
cus. Its performance in motors is believed to follow accordingly.
Such a U-shaped relationship probably also roughly holds in the au-
tomobile industry when viewed on a global basis, with firms like GM
(low cost) and Mercedes (differentiate) the profit leaders. Chrysler,
British Leyland, and Fiat lack cost position, differentiation, or fo-
cus-they are stuck in the middle.
      However, the U-shaped relationship in Figure 2-2 does not hold
in every industry. In some industries, there are no opportunities for
focus or differentiation-it's solely a cost game-and this is true in a
number of bulk commodities. In other industries, cost is relatively
unimportant because of buyer and product characteristics. In these
kinds of industries there is often an inverse relationship between
market share and profitability. In still other industries, competition
is so intense that the only way to achieve an above-average return is

FIGURE 2-2




                                               Market Share
44                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

through focus or differentiation-which seems to be true in the U.S.
steel industry. Finally, low overall cost position may not be incom-
patible with differentiation or focus, or low cost may be achievable
without high share. For an example of the complex combinations
that can result, Hyster is number two in lift trucks but is more profit-
able than several of the smaller producers in the industry (Allis-
Chalmers, Eaton) who do not have the share to achieve either low
costs or enough product differentiation to offset their cost position.
     There is no single relationship between profitability and market
share, unless one conveniently defines the market so that focused or
differentiated firms are assigned high market shares in some narrow-
ly defined industries and the industry definitions of cost leadership
firms are allowed to stay broad (they must because cost leaders often
do not have the largest share in every submarket). Even shifting in-
dustry definition cannot explain the high returns of firms who have
achieved differentiation industrywide and hold market shares below
that of the industry leader.
     Most importantly, however, shifting the way the industry is de-
fined from firm to firm begs the question of deciding which of the
three generic strategies is appropriate for the firm. This choice rests
on picking the strategy best suited to the firm's strengths and one
least replicable by competitors. The principles of structural analysis
should illuminate the choice, as well as allow the analyst to explain
or predict the relationship between share and profitability in any
particular industry. I will discuss this issue further in Chapter 7,
where structural analysis is extended to consider the differing posi-
tions of firms within a particular industry.


Risks of the Generic Strategies

     Fundamentally, the risks in pursuing the generic strategies are
two: first, failing to attain or sustain the strategy; second, for the
value of the strategic advantage provided by the strategy to erode
with industry evolution. More narrowly, the three strategies are
predicated on erecting differing kinds of defenses against the com-
petitive forces, and not surprisingly they involve differing types of
risks. It is important to make these risks explicit in order to improve
the firm's choice among the three alternatives.
Generic Competitive Strategies


     RISKS OF OVERALL COST LEADERSHIP

     Cost leadership imposes severe burdens on the firm to keep up
its position, which means reinvesting in modern equipment, ruthless-
ly scrapping obsolete assets, avoiding product line proliferation and
being alert for technological improvements. Cost declines with cu-
mulative volume are by no means automatic, nor is reaping' all avail-
able economies of scale achievable without significant attention.
     Cost leadership is vulnerable to the same risks, identified in
Chapter 1, of relying on scale or experience as entry barriers. Some
of these risks are
       technological change that nullifies past investments or learn-
       ing;
       low-cost learning by industry newcomers or followers,
       through imitation or through their ability to invest in state-
       of-the-art facilities;
       inability to see required product or marketing change because
       of the attention placed on cost;
       inflation in costs that narrow the firm's ability to maintain
       enough of a price differential to offset competitors' brand
       images or other approaches to differentiation.
      The classic example of the risks of cost leadership is the Ford
Motor Company of the 1920s. Ford had achieved unchallenged cost
leadership through limitation of models and varieties, aggressive
backward integration, highly automated facilities, and aggressive
pursuit of lower costs through learning. Learning was facilitated by
the lack of model changes. Yet as incomes rose and many buyers had
already purchased a car and were considering their second, the mar-
ket began to place more of a premium on styling, model changes,
comfort, and closed rather than open cars. Customers were willing
to pay a price premium to get such features. General Motors stood
ready to capitalize on this development with a full line of models.
Ford faced enormous costs of strategic readjustment given the rigidi-
ties created by heavy investments in cost minimization of an obsolete
model.
      Another example of the risks of cost leadership as a sole focus is
provided by Sharp in consumer electronics. Sharp, which has long
followed a cost leadership strategy, has been forced to begin an ag-
46                                              COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

gressive campaign to develop brand recognition. Its ability to suffi-
ciently undercut Sony's and Panasonic's prices was eroded by cost
increases and U.S. antidumping legislation, and its strategic position
was deteriorating through sole concentration on cost leadership.


     RISKS OF DIFFERENTIATION

     Differentiation also involves a series of risks:
       the cost differential between low-cost competitors and the
       differentiated firm becomes too great for differentiation to
       hold brand loyalty. Buyers thus sacrifice some of the fea-
       tures, services, or image possessed by the differentiated firm
       for large cost savings;
       buyers' need for the differentiating factor falls. This can oc-
       cur as buyers become more sophisticated;
       imitation narrows perceived differentiation, a common oc-
       currence as industries mature.
     The first risk is so important as to be worthy of further com-
men t. A firm may achieve differentiation, yet this differentiation
will usually sustain only so much of a price differential. Thus if a
differentiated firm gets too far behind in,cost due to technological
change or simply inattention, the low cost firm may be in a position
to make major inroads. For example, Kawasaki and other Japanese
motorcycle producers have been able to successfully attack differen-
tiated producers such as Harley-Davidson and Triumph in large mo-
torcycles by offering major cost savings to buyers.


     RISKS OF FOCUS

     Focus involves yet another set of risks:
       the cost differential between broad-range competitors and the
       focused firm widens to eliminate the cost advantages of serv-
       ing a narrow target or to offset the differentiation achieved
       by focus;
       the differences in desired products or services between the
       strategic target and the market as a whole narrows;
       competitors find submarkets within the strategic target and
       outfocus the focuser.
A Framework for
Competitor Analysis




Competitive strategy involves positioning a business to maximize the
value of the capabilities that distinguish it from its competitors. It
follows that a central aspect of strategy formulation is perceptive
competitor analysis. The objective of a competitor analysis is to de-
velop a profile of the nature and success of the likely strategy
changes each competitor might make, each competitor's probable
response to the range of feasible strategic moves other firms could
initiate, and each competitor's probable reaction to the array of in-
dustry changes and broader environmental shifts that might occur.
Sophisticated competitor analysis is needed to answer such questions
as "Who should we pick a fight with in the industry, and with what
sequence of moves?" "What is the meaning of that competitor's
strategic move and how seriously should we take it?" and "What
areas should we avoid because the competitor's response will be
emotional or desperate?"
     Despite the clear need for sophisticated competitor analysis in
strategy formulation, such analysis is sometimes not done explicitly
or comprehensively in practice. Dangerous assumptions can creep
into managerial thinking about competitors: "Competitors cannot
be systematically analyzed," "We know all about our competitors
                                                                   47
48                                                      COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

because we compkte with them every day." Neither assumption is
generally true. A further difficulty is that in-depth competitor analy-
sis requires a great deal of data, much of which is not easy to find
without considerable hard work. Many companies do not collect in-
formation about competitors in a systematic fashion, but act on the
basis of informal impressions, conjectures, and intuition gained
through the tidbits of information about competitors every manager
continually receives. Yet the lack of good information makes it very
hard to do sophisticated competitor analysis.
     There are four diagnostic components to a competitor analysis
(see Figure 3-1): future goals, current strategy, assumptions, and
capabilities. ' Understanding these four components will allow an in-
formed prediction of the competitor's response profile, as articu-
lated in the key questions posed in Figure 3-1. Most companies
develop at least an intuitive sense for their competitors' current
strategies and their strengths and weaknesses (shown on the right
side of Figure 3-1). Much less attention is usually directed at the left
side, or understanding what is really driving the behavior of a com-
petitor-its future goals and the assumptions it holds about its own
situation and the nature of its industry. These driving factors are
much harder to observe than is actual competitor behavior, yet they
often determine how a competitor will behave in the future.
     This chapter will present a basic framework for competitor
analysis, which will be extended or enriched in subsequent chapters.
Each component of competitor analysis in Figure 3-1 will be treated
in subsequent sections by developing a set of questions that can be
asked about competitors, with somewhat more stress placed on diag-
nosing competitor goals and assumptions. In these more subtle
areas, it will be important to go beyond mere categorization to sug-
gest some techniques and clues for identifying what a particular
competitor's goals and assumptions actually are. Having discussed
each component of competitor analysis, we will then examine how
the components can be put together to answer the questions posed in
Figure 3-1. Finally, some concepts for collecting and analyzing com-
petitor data will be briefly discussed, in view of the importance of
the data-gathering task in competitor analysis.
     Although the framework and questions presented here are
stated in terms of competitors, the same ideas can also be turned
'Although we usually treat future goals as part of strategy, it will be analytically
 useful to separate goals and current strategy in competitor analysis.
A Framework for Competitor Analysis
              What Drives                               What the Competitor
            the Competitor                              Is Doing and Can Do


          FUTURE GOALS                              CURRENT STRATEGY
       At all levels of management                       How the business is
       and in multiple dimensions                        currently competing




                     Is the competitor satisfied with
                     its current position?
                     What likely moves or strategy
                     shifts will the competitor make?
                     Where is the competitor vulnerable?
                     What will provoke the greatest and
                     most effective retaliation by the
                     competitor?




                                          I
            Held about itself             I                 Both strengths
            and the industry              I                and weaknesses

FIGURE 3-1 The Components of a Competitor Analysis

around to provide a framework for self-analysis. The same concepts
provide a company with a framework for probing its own position in
its environment. And beyond this, going through such an exercise
can help a company understand what conclusions its competitors are
likely to draw about it. This is part of sophisticated competitor anal-
ysis because these conclusions shape a competitor's assumptions and
hence behavior, and are crucial to making competitive moves (see
Chapter 5).



The Components of Competitor Analysis

     Before discussing each component of competitor analysis, it is
important to define which competitors should be examined. Clearly
all significant existing competitors must be analyzed. However, it
also may be important to analyze the potential competitors that may
50                                              COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

come on the scene. Forecasting potential competitors is not an easy
task, but they can often be identified from the following groups:
       firms not in the industry but who could overcome entry bar-
       riers particularly cheaply;
       firms for whom there is obvious synergy from being in the
       industry;
       firms for whom competing in the industry is an obvious ex-
       tension of the corporate strategy;
       customers or suppliers who may integrate backward or for-
       ward.
      Another potentially valuable exercise is to attempt to predict
probable mergers or acquisitions that might occur, either among es-
tablished competitors or involving outsiders. A merger can instanta-
neously propel a weak competitor into prominence, or strengthen an
already formidable one. Forecasting acquiring firms follows the
same logic as forecasting potential entrants. Forecasting acquisition
targets within the industry can be based on their ownership situation,
ability to cope with future developments in the industry, and poten-
tial attractiveness as a base of operations in the industry, among
other things.


     FUTURE GOALS

     The diagnosis of competitors' goals (and how they will measure
themselves against these goals), the first component of competitor
analysis, is important for a variety of reasons. A knowledge of goals
will allow predictions about whether or not each competitor is satis-
fied with its present position and financial results, and thereby, how
likely that competitor is to change strategy and the vigor with which
it will react to outside events (for instance, the business cycle) or to
moves by other firms. For example, a firm placing a high value on
stable sales growth may react very differently to a business downturn
or a market share increase by another company than a firm most in-
terested in maintaining its rate of return on investment.
     Knowing a competitor's goals will also aid in predicting its reac-
tions to strategic changes. Some strategic changes will threaten a
competitor more than others, given its goals and any pressures it
may face from a corporate parent. This degree of threat will affect
the probability of retaliation. Finally, a diagnosis of a competitor's
A Framework for Competitor Analysis                                    51

goals helps interpret the seriousness of initiatives the competitor
takes. A strategic move by a competitor which addresses one of its
central goals or seeks to restore performance against a key target is
not a casual matter. Similarly, a diagnosis of its goals will help deter-
mine whether a corporate parent will seriously support an initiative
taken by one of its business units or whether it will back that busi-
ness unit's retaliation against moves of competitors.
     Although one most often thinks of financial goals, a compre-
hensive diagnosis of a competitor's goals will usually include many
more qualitative factors, such as its targets in terms of market lead-
ership, technological position, social performance, and the like. Di-
agnosis of goals should also be at multiple management levels. There
are corporate-wide goals, business unit goals, and even goals that
can be deduced for individual functional areas and key managers.
The goals of higher levels play a part in, but do not fully determine,
the goals lower down.
     The following diagnostic questions help to determine a competi-
tor's present and future goals. We begin by considering the business
unit or division, which in some cases will comprise the competitor's
entire corporate entity. Then we examine the impact of the corporate
parent on the future goals of the business unit in the diversified com-
pany.


     1. What are the stated and unstated financial goals of the com-
petitor? How does the competitor make the trade-offs inherent in
goal setting, such as the trade-off between long-run and short-run
performance? Between profits and growth in revenue? Between
growth and ability to pay regular dividends?
     2. What is the competitor's attitude toward risks? If financial
objectives essentially consist of profitability, market position (share),
rate of growth, and desired level of risk, how does the competitor
appear to balance these factors?
     3. Does the competitor have economic or noneconomic organi-
zational values or beliefs, either widely shared or held by senior
management, which importantly affect its goals? Does it want to be
the market leader (Texas Instruments)? The industry statesman
(Coca-Cola)? The maverick? The technological leader? Does it have
a tradition or history of following a particular strategy or functional
policy that has been institutionalized into a goal? Strongly held
views about product design or quality? Locational preferences?
52                                                 COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

      4. What is the organizational structure of the competitor (func-
 tional structure, presence or absence of product managers, separate
 R&D laboratory, etc.)? How does the structure allocate responsibil-
 ity and power for such key decisions as resource allocation, pricing,
 and product changes? The competitor's organizational structure
 provides some indication about the relative status of the various
 functional areas and the coordination and emphasis that are deemed
 strategically important. For example, if the sales department is
 headed by a senior vice-president who reports directly to the presi-
 dent, it is an indication that sales is more influential than manufac-
 turing if manufacturing is headed by a director who reports to the
senior vice-president for administration. Where responsibility for
decisions is assigned will give clues about the perspective top man-
agement wants to bring to bear on them.
      5. What control and incentive systems are in place? How are
executives compensated? How is the sales force compensated? Do
managers hold stock? Is there a deferred compensation system in
place? What measures of performance are tracked regularly? How
often? All these things, though sometimes difficult to discern, yield
important clues about what the competitor believes is important and
how its managers will respond to events in view of their rewards.
      6 . What accounting system and conventions are in place? How
does the competitor value inventory? Allocate costs? Account for in-
flation? These sorts of accounting policy issues can strongly influ-
ence the competitor's perceptions of its performance, what its costs
are, the way it sets prices, and so on.
      7. What kinds of managers comprise the leadership of the com-
petitor, particularly the Chief Executive Officer (CEO)? What are
their backgrounds and experien~e?~       What kinds of younger manag-
ers seem to be getting rewarded, and what is their apparent empha-
sis? Are there any patterns in the places from which outsiders are
hired into the company as an indication of a direction the company
might be taking? Bic Pen, for example, had an explicit policy of hir-
ing from outside the industry because it believed it needed to take an
unconventional strategy. Are retirements imminent?
      8. How much apparent unanimity is there among management
about future direction? Are their management factions favoring dif-
ferent goals? If so, this may lead to sudden shifts in strategy as
power shifts. Unanimity, conversely, may lead to great staying
power and even stubbornness in the face of adversity.
'Some potentially illuminating questions about managers' backgrounds and ex-
 perience are discussed below.
A Framework for Competitor Analysis                                  53

      9. What is the composition of the board? Does it have enough
outsiders to exercise effective outside review? What kinds of outsid-
ers are on the board, and what are their backgrounds and company
affiliations? How do they manage in their own firms, or what inter-
ests do they represent (banks? lawyers?)? The composition of the
board can provide clues about the company's orientation, posture
toward risk, and even preferred strategic approaches.
      10. What contractual commitments may limit alternatives? Are
there any debt covenants that will limit what goals can be? Restric-
tions due to licensing or joint venture agreements?
      11. Are there any regulatory, antitrust, o r other governmental
or social constraints on the behavior of the firm that will affect such
things as its reaction to moves of a smaller competitor or the proba-
bility that it will try to gain a larger market share? Has the competi-
tor had any antitrust problems in the past? For what reasons? Has it
entered into any consent decrees? Such restraints or even just a his-
tory may sensitize a firm so that it foregoes reacting to strategic
events unless some essential element if its business is threatened. The
firm attempting to capture a small share of a market from an indus-
try leader can enjoy some protection as a result of such constraints,
for example.
    THE CORPORATE PARENT AND BUSINESS U NIT GOALS
      If the competitor is a unit of a larger company, its corporate
parent is likely to impose constraints or requirements on the business
unit that will be crucial to predicting its behavior. The following
questions need to be asked in addition to those just discussed:
     1. What are the current results (sales growth, rate of return,
etc.) of theparent company? As a first approximation, this gives an
indication of the parent's targets that may be translated into market
share objectives, pricing decisions, pressure for new products, and
so on, for its business unit. A business unit performing worse than
the parent as a whole is usually feeling the pressure. A business unit
of a parent with a long string of unbroken financial improvement
will be unlikely to take an action that can jeopardize the record.
     2. What are the overall goals of the parent? In view of these,
what are the parent's probable needs from its business unit?
     3. What strategic importance does the parent attach to the par-
ticular business unit in terms of its overall corporate strategy? Does
the corporation view this business as a "base business" or one on the
periphery of its operation? Where does the business fit into the par-
ent's portfolio? Is this business seen as a growth area and one of the
54                                                      COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

 keys to the future of the corporation, or is it considered mature or
stable and a source of cash? The strategic importance of the business
 unit will have a major influence on the goals it is expected to meet,
and assessing strategic importance is discussed further below.
      4. Why did the parent get into this business (because of excess
capacity, need for vertical integration, to exploit distribution chan-
nels, for marketing strength)? This factor will give some further in-
dication of the way in which the parent views the contribution of the
business and the probable pressure it will place on the unit's strategic
 posture and behavior.
      5. What is the economic relationship between the business and
others in the parent company's portfolio (vertical integration, com-
plementary. to other businesses, shared R&D)? What does this rela-
tionship imply for special requirements the corporation may place
on the unit relative to the way it would behave as a free-standing
company? Shared facilities, for example, may mean that the unit is
under pressure to cover overhead or absorb excess capacity gener-
ated by its sister units. Or if the unit is complementary to another di-
vision in the parent, the parent may choose to take the profits else-
where. Interrelationships with other units in the company may also
imply cross-subsidies in one direction or another.
      6. What are the corporate-wide values or beliefs of top manage-
ment? Do they seek technological leadership in all their businesses?
Do they desire level production and the avoidance of layoffs to carry
out a corporate policy against unions?' These sorts of corporate-
wide values and beliefs will usually have an effect on the business
unit.
     7 . Is there a generic strategy that the parent has applied in a
number of businesses and may attempt in this one? For example, Bic
Pen has employed a strategy of low-price, standardized, disposable
products produced at very high volumes with heavy advertising to
compete in the areas of writing instruments, cigarette lighters, panty-
hose, and now razors. Haynes Corporation is in the process of ap-
plying the L'eggs strategy in pantyhose to such diverse businesses as
cosmetics, men's underwear, and socks.
     8. Given the performance and needs of other units in the cor-
poration and the overall strategy, what sorts of sales targets, hurdles
for return on investment, and constraints on capital might be placed
'A policy against layoffs, for example, would imply the building of big inventories
in downturns, and possibly the willingness to give up market share in upturns.
Such policies are in place at a number of major U . S. corporations.
A Framework for Competitor Analysis                                    55
on the competitor unit? Will it be able to compete successfully
against other units in its corporate organization for corporate capital
given its performance vis-a-vis these other units and the corpora-
tion's goals for it? Is the business unit either actually or potentially
big enough to command the attention and support of the parent
company, or will it be left on its own and assigned low priority in
terms of managerial attention? What are the investment capital re-
quirements of the other units of the company? Given any clues avail-
able about the priorities its parent company places on the various
units and the amount of funds available after dividends, how much
will be left for the unit?
      9. What are the parent company's diversification plans? Is the
parent planning to diversify into other areas that will consume capi-
tal or which provide an indicat on of the long-run emphasis that will
be placed on the unit? Is the parent moving in directions that will
bolster the unit through opportunities for synergy? Reynolds recent-
ly purchased Del Monte, for example, which should give a shot in
the arm to Reynold's consumer food businesses because of Del
Monte's distribution system.
      10. What clues does the organizational structure of the compet-
itor's corporate parent provide about the relative status, position,
and goals of the unit in the eyes of the corporate parent? Does the
unit report directly to the chief executive or an influential group vice-
president, or is it a small part of a larger organizational entity? Has
a "comer" in the organization been placed in charge or a manager
on his way out? The organizational relationships will also give clues
about actual or probable strategy. For example, if a cluster of elec-
trical product divisions are grouped under an electrical products gen-
eral manager, a coordinated strategy among them is more likely than
if they are independent divisions, particularly if an influential execu-
tive has been made group general manager. It is important to note
that clues derived from reporting i    relationships must be combined
with other indications before confidence in them can be complete
since organizational relationships can be merely cosmetic.
     11. How is divisional management controlled and compensated
in the overall corporate scheme? What is the frequency of reviews?
The size of bonus relative to salary? What is the bonus based on? Is
there stock ownership? These questions have clear implications for
divisional goals and behavior.
     12. What kinds of executives seem to be rewarded by the corpo-
rate parent, as an indication of the types of strategic behavior rein-
56                                               COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

forced by corporate senior management and thereby of divisional
management's goals? How rapidly do managers typically move in
and out of the unit to other units in the parent company? The answer
may provide some evidence about their time horizons and the man-
ner in which they balance risky strategies versus safer ones.
     13. Where does the corporate parent recruit from? Has current
management been promoted from within-which may mean that
past strategy will be continued-or from outside the division or even
outside the company? What functional area did the current general
manager come from (an indication of the strategic emphasis top
management may want to bring to bear)?
     14. Does the corporation as a whole have any antitrust, regula-
tory, or social sensitivities which may spill over to affect the business
unit?
     15. Does its corporate parent or particular top managers in the
organization have an emotional attachment to the unit? Is the unit
one of the early businesses of the company? Are any past chief exec-
utives of the unit now in top corporate jobs? Did current top man-
agement make the decision to acquire or to develop the unit? Were
any programs or moves of the unit begun under the leadership of
such a manager? These sorts of relationships may signal that dispro-
portionate attention and support will be given to the unit. They may
also indicate exit barrier^.^
     PORTFOLIO ANALYSISAND COMPETITOR~S
                                   GOALS
      When a competitor is part of a diversified company, analysis of
its parent company's collection of businesses can be a potentially re-
vealing exercise in answering some of the questions just posed. The
full range of techniques available for analyzing a business portfolio
can be used to answer questions about the needs the competitor unit
is fulfilling in the eyes of the parent ~ o m p a n y The
                                                      . ~ most revealing
technique for portfolio analysis of the competitor is the one the com-
petitor uses itself.
       What criteria are used to classify businesses at the compet-
       itor's parent if a classification scheme is in use? How is each
       business classified?
'Exit barriers are discussed in Chapters 1 and 12.
'Appendix A briefly describes some of the approaches commonly used by com-
 panies today to classify their portfolio.
A Framework for Competitor Analysis                                   57

       Which businesses are being counted on to be cash cows?
       Which businesses are candidates for harvest or divestment
       given their position in the portfolio?
       Which businesses are the habitual sources of stability to off-
       set fluctuations elsewhere in the portfolio?
       Which businesses represent defensive moves to protect other
       major businesses?
       Which businesses are the most promising areas the parent
       company has in which to invest resources and build market
       position?
       Which businesses have a lot of "leverage" in the portfolio?
       These businesses are ones where performance changes will
       have a significant impact on the performance of the parent
       overall in terms of stability, earnings, cash flow, sales growth,
       or costs. Such businesses will be protected vigorously.
     Portfolio analysis of the parent will provide clues to what the
objectives of the business unit will be; how hard it will fight to main-
tain its position and performance along dimensions such as return
on investment, share, cash flow, and so on; and how likely it is to at-
tempt to change its strategic position.


     One approach in formulating strategy is to look for positions in
the market where a firm can meet its objectives without threatening
its competitors. When competitors' goals are well understood, there
may be a place where everyone is relatively happy. Of course such
positions do not always exist, particularly when one takes into ac-
count that new entrants may be tempted into an industry where exist-
ing firms are all doing well. In most cases the firm has to force com-
petitors to compromise their goals in order for the firm to meet its
objectives. To do so it needs to find a strategy it can defend against
existing competitors and new entrants through some distinctive ad-
vantages.
     Analysis of competitors' goals is crucial, because it helps the
firm avoid strategic moves that will touch off bitter warfare by
threatening competitors' ability to achieve key goals. For example,
portfolio analysis can separate cash cows and harvest businesses
from those the parent is trying to build. It is often quite possible to
gain position against a cash cow if this does not threaten its cash
58                                              COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

flow to the parent, but it is potentially explosive to try to gain
against a business the competitor's parent is attempting to build (or
one to which it has emotional attachments). Similarly, a business
that is counted on to achieve stable sales may fight aggressively to do
so even at the expense of profits, whereas it will react much less to a
move designed to boost a competitor's profits though leaving market
shares the same. These are just some examples of how analysis of
goals can begin to answer the questions about competitors' behavior
posed in Figure 3-1.


     ASSUMPTIONS

     The second crucial component in competitor analysis is identi-
fying each competitor's assumptions. These fall into two major cate-
gories:
       The competitor's assumptions about itself
       The competitor's assumptions about the industry and the
       other companies in it
      Every firm operates on a set of assumptions about its own situa-
tion. For example, it may see itself as a socially conscious firm, as
the industry leader, as the low-cost producer, as having the best sales
force, and so on. These assumptions about its own situation will
guide the way the firm behaves and the way it reacts to events. If it
sees itself as the low-cost producer, for example, it may try to disci-
pline a price cutter with price cuts of its own.
      A competitor's assumptions about its own situation may or may
not be accurate. Where they are not, this provides an intriguing stra-
tegic lever. If a competitor believes it has the greatest customer loyal-
ty in the market and it does not, for example, a provocative price cut
may be a good way to gain position. The competitor might well re-
fuse to match the price cut believing that it will have little impact on
its share, only to find that it loses significant market position before
it recognizes the error in its assumption.
      Just as each competitor holds assumptions about itself, every
firm also operates on assumptions about its industry and competi-
tors. These also may or may not be correct. For example, Gerber
Products had steadfastly believed that births would increase ever
since the 1950s, even though the birth rate has been declining steadily
    A Framework for Competitor Analysis                                  59

    and the actual upturn in births may just have occurred in 1979.
    There are also many examples of firms that greatly over- or underes-
    timated their competitors' staying power, resources, or skills.
          Examining assumptions of all types can identify biases or blind
    spots that may creep into the way managers perceive their environ-
    ment. The blind spots are areas where a competitor will either not see
    the significance of events (such as a strategic move) at all, will per-
    ceive them incorrectly, or will perceive them only very slowly. Root-
    ing out these blind spots will help the firm identify moves with a
    lower probability of immediate retaliation and identify moves where
    retaliation, once it comes, is not effective.
          The following questions are directed toward identifying compet-
    itors' assumptions and also areas where they are likely not to be
    completely dispassionate or realistic:
          1. What does the competitor appear to believe about its relative
    position-in cost, product quality, technological sophistication, and
    other key aspects of its business-based on its public statements,
    claims of management and sales force, and other indications? What
    does it see as its strengths and weaknesses? Are these accurate?
          2. Does the competitor have strong historical or emotional
    identification with particular products or with particular functional
    policies, such as an approach to product design, desire for product
    quality, manufacturing location, selling approach, distribution ar-
    rangements, and so on, which will be strongly held to?
          3. Are there cultural, regional, or national differences that will
    affect the way in which competitors perceive and assign significance
    to events? To take one of many examples, West German companies
    are sometimes very oriented toward production and product quality,
    at the expense of unit costs and marketing.
          4. Are there organizational values or canons which have been
    strongly institutionalized and will affect the way events are viewed?
    Are there some policies that the company's founder believed in
I   strongly that may still linger?
          5. What does the competitor appear to believe about future de-
    mand for the product and about the significance of industry trends?
    Will it be hesitant to add capacity because of unfounded uncertain-
    ties about demand, or likely to overbuild for the opposite reason? Is
    it prone to misestimate the importance of particular trends? Does it
    believe the industry is concentrating, for example, when it may not
    be? These are all wedges around which strategies can be built.
60                                                      COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

      6 . What does the competitor appear to believe about the goals
and capabilities of its competitors? Will it over- or underestimate
any of them?
      7. Does the competitor seem to believe in industry "conven-
tional wisdom" or historic rules of thumb and common industry ap-
proaches that do not reflect new market condition^?^ Examples of
conventional wisdom are such notions as "Everyone must have a
full line," "Customers trade up," "One must control sources of raw
material in this business," "Decentralized plants are the most effi-
cient manufacturing system," "One needs a large number of deal-
ers," and so on. Identifying situations where conventional wisdom is
inappropriate or can be changed yields advantages in terms of the
timeliness and effectiveness of a competitor's retaliation.
      8. A competitor's assumptions may well be subtly influenced
by, as well as reflected in, its current strategy. It may see new indus-
try events through filters defined by its past and present circum-
stances, and this may not lead to objectivity.




     The recent resurgence of Miller Breweries provides an example
of the benefits that accrue to the perception of blind spots. Miller,
acquired by Philip Morris and not bound by conventional wisdom
like many family-owned breweries, has introduced Lite Beer, a 7-
ounce bottle, and a domestically brewed Lowenbrau Beer at a 25
percent price premium over Michelob (the leading domestic premi-
um beer). According to reports, most breweries laughed at Miller's
moves, but many have now grudgingly followed as Miller made ma-
jor gains in market share.'
     Another situation in which the recognition of outdated conven-
tional wisdom has been credited with yielding great rewards is in the
turnaround of Paramount Pictures. Two new senior executives with
backgrounds in network television management have violated many
industry norms in the movie industry-preselling of films, releasing
films simultaneously in large numbers of theaters, and so on-and
registered major gains in market hare.^
6Theseare particularly likely to exist in industries composed of competitors with a
 long tradition in the industry.
'For a brief account, see Business Week, November 8, 1976.
'For a brief description, see Business Week, November 27, 1978.
I
i
    A Framework for Competitor Analysis                                  61


         HISTORY AS AN INDICATOR OF GOALS AND ASSUMPTIONS

          One of the often powerful indicators of a competitor's goals
    and assumptions with respect to a business is its history in the busi-
    ness. The following questions suggest some ways to examine these
    areas:
          1. What is the competitor's current financial performance and
    market share, compared to that of the relatively recent past? This
    can be a good first indication of future goals, particularly if results
    of the "rememberable" past were somewhat better and provide a
    tangible and annoyingly visible indicator of the competitor's poten-
    tial. The competitor will almost always be striving to regain the per-
    formance of the recent past.
          2. What has been the competitor's history in the marketplace
    over time? Where has it failed or been beaten, and thus perhaps not
    likely to tread again? The memory of past failures, and the impedi-
    ments to further moves in those areas they bring, can be very lasting
    and given disproportionate weight. This is particularly true in gener-
    ally successful organizations. For example, some argue that a past
    failure with discount stores delayed Federated Department Stores'
    reentry into this area of retailing for seven years.
          3. In what areas has the competitor starred or succeeded as a
    company? In new product introductions? Innovative marketing
    techniques? Others? In such areas the competitor may feel confident
    to initiate a move again or to do battle in the event of a provocation.
          4. How has the competitor reacted to particular strategic moves
    or industry events in the past? Rationally? Emotionally? Slowly?
    Quickly? What approaches have been employed? To what sorts of
    events has the competitor reacted poorly, and why?

        MANAGERIAL BACKGROUNDS AND ADVISORY
        RELATIONSHIPS

         Another key indicator of a competitor's goals, assumptions,
    and probable future moves is where its leadership has come from
    and what the managers' track records and personal successes and
    failures have been.
         1. The functional background of top management is one key
    measure of its orientation and perception of the business and ap-
    propriate goals. Leaders with financial backgrounds can often em-
62                                            COMPETITIVESTRATEGY

 phasize different strategic directions, based on what they feel com-
 fortable with, than leaders with backgrounds in marketing or
 production. Current examples could be Edwin Land's penchant for
 radical innovation as a solution to strategic problems at Polaroid,
 and McGee's strategy of retrenchment to energy-related activities at
 Gulf Oil.
       2. A second clue to the top managers' assumptions, goals, and
 probable future moves is the types of strategies that have worked or
 not worked for them personally in their careers. For example, if cut-
 ting costs was a successful remedy for a problem facing the CEO in
 the past, it may be adopted the next time a remedy is needed.
       3. Another dimension of the top managers' backgrounds that
can be important is the other businesses they have worked in and
 what rules of the game and strategic approaches have been charac-
 teristic of those businesses. For example, Marc Roijtman applied a
strategy of salesmanship, implemented successfully in industrial
equipment, to the farm equipment business when he assumed the
 presidency of J. I. Case in the mid-1960s. R. J. Reynolds has recent-
ly brought in new leadership from consumer packaged food and toi-
letries companies that has introduced many of the product manage-
ment and other practices characteristic of those businesses. And the
recently retired top management of Household Finance Corporation
(HFC) came from the retail industry. Rather than bolster HFC's
strong position in consumer credit and capitalize on the consumer
credit boom, the company spent its resources diversifying into retail-
ing. A new CEO, promoted from the consumer finance division, has
reversed this direction. This tendency to reuse concepts that have
worked in the past applies to senior executives coming from law
firms, consulting firms, and from other companies in the industry.
All can bring to the competitor a perspective and tool kit of remedies
to some extent reflecting their past.
      4. Top managers can be greatly influenced by major events they
have lived through, such as a sharp recession, traumatic energy
shortage, major loss due to currency fluctuations, and so on. Such
events sometimes broadly affect the perspective of the manager in a
wide range of areas and can influence strategic choices accordingly.
      5. Indications of top managers' perspectives can also be gained
from their writing and speaking, their technical background or pat-
ent history where applicable, other firms they come into frequent
contact with (such as through boards of directors they sit on), their
outside activities, and a range of other clues limited only by the
imagination.
A Framework forCompetitor Analysis                                                 63

     6 . Management consulting firms, advertising agencies, invest-
ment banks, and other advisors used by the competitor can be im-
portant clues. What other companies use these advisors and what
have they done? What conceptual approaches and techniques are the
advisors known for? The identity of a competitor's advisors and a
thorough diagnosis of them can provide an indication of future stra-
tegic changes.

     CURRENT STRATEGY

     The third component of competitor analysis is developing state-
ments of the current strategy of each competitor. A competitor's
strategy is most usefully thought of as its key operating policies in
each functional area of the business and how it seeks to interrelate
the functions. This strategy may be either explicit or implicit-one
always exists in one form or the other. The principles of strategy
identification have been discussed in the Introduction.

     CAPABILITIES

      A realistic appraisal of each competitor's capabilities is the final
diagnostic step in competitor analysis. Its goals, assumptions, and
current strategy will influence the likelihood, timing, nature, and in-
tensity of a competitor's reactions. Its strengths and weaknesses will
determine its ability to initiate or react to strategic moves and to deal
with environmental or industry events that occur.
      Since the notion of a competitor's strengths and weaknesses is
relatively clear, I will not dwell on it here. Broadly, strengths and
weaknesses can be assessed by examining a competitor's position
with respect to the five key competitive forces discussed in Chapter
1, an analysis I will pursue in Chapter 7. Taking a narrower perspec-
tive, Figure 3-2 gives a summary framework for looking at a compet-
itor's strengths and weaknesses in each key area of the b ~ s i n e s s A
                                                                        .~
list such as this can be made more useful by asking some additional,
synthesizing questions.
'For other sources of areas to look at in assessing capabilities, see Robert Buchele,
 "How to Evaluate a Firm," California Management Review, Fall 1962, pp. 5-16;
 "Checklist for Competitive and Competence Profiles," in H . I. Ansoff, Cor-
 porate Strategy (New York: McGraw-Hill, 1965), pp. 98-99; Chapter 2 in W. H .
 Newman and J. P. Logan, Strategy, Policy and Central Management, 6th ed.
 (Cincinnati: South-Western Publishing, 1971); Chapter 5 in W. E. Rothschild,
 Putting It All Together (New York: AMACOM, 1979).
64                                                      COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

FIGURE 3 2 Areas of Competitor Strengths and Weaknesses
Products
     Standing of products, from the user's point of view, in each market segment
     Breadth and depth of the product line
Dealer/Distribution
     Channel coverage and quality
     Strength of channel relationships
     Ability to service the channels
Marketing and Selling
     Skills in each aspect of the marketing mix
     Skills in market research and new product development
     Training and skills of the sales force
Operations
     Manufacturing cost position-economies of scale, learning curve, newness of
     equipment, etc.
     Technological sophistication of facilities and equipment
     Flexibility of facilities and equipment
     Proprietary know-how and unique patent or cost advantages
     Skills in capacity addition, quality control, tooling, etc.
     Location, including labor and transportation cost
     Labor force climate; unionization situation
     Access to and cost of raw materials
     Degree of vertical integration
Research and Engineering
     Patents and copyrights
     In-house capability in the research and development process (product research,
     process research, basic research, development, imitation, etc.)
     R&D staff skills in terms of creativity, simplicity, quality, reliability, etc.
     Access to outside sources of research and engineering (e.g., suppliers, custom-
     ers, contractors)
Overall Costs
     Overall relative costs
     Shared costs or activities with other business units
     Where the competitor is generating the scale or other factors that are key to its
     cost position
Financial Strength
     Cash flow
     Short- and long-term borrowing capacity (relative debt/eqdty ratio)
    A Framework for Competitor Analysis

    FIGURE 3-2 Continued
i
        New equity capacity over the foreseeable future
        Financial management ability, including negotiation, raising capital, credit, in-
        ventories, and accounts receivable
    Organization
       Unity of values and clarity of purpose in the organization
       Organizational fatigue based on recent requirements placed on it
       Consistency of organizational arrangements with strategy
    General Managerial Ability
I      Leadership qualities of CEO; ability of CEO to motivate
       Ability to coordinate particular functions or groups of functions (e.g., manu-
       facturing with research coordination)
       Age, training, and functional orientation of management
       Depth of management
       Flexibility and adaptability of management
    Corporate Portfolio
       Ability of corporation to support planned changes in all business units in terms
       of financial and other resources
       Ability of corporation to supplement or reinforce business unit strengths
    Other
       Special treatment by or access to government bodies
       Personnel turnover




            What are the competitor's capabilities in each of the func-
            tional areas? What is it best at? Worst at?
            How does the competitor measure up to the tests of the con-
            sistency of its strategy (presented in the Introduction)?
            Are there any probable changes in those capabilities as the
            competitor matures? Will they increase or diminish over
            time?


            Will the competitor's capabilities increase or diminish if it
            grows? In which areas?
            What is the competitor's capacity for growth in terms of peo-
            ple, skills and plant capacity?
66                                               COMPETITIVESTRATEGY

     what is the competitor's sustainable growth in financial
     terms? Given a Du Pont analysis, can it grow with the indus-
     try?I0 Can it increase market share? How sensitive is sustain-
     able growth to raising outside capital? To achieving good
     short-term financial results?


     what is the competitor's capacity to respond quickly to moves
     by others, or to mount an immediate offensive? This will be
     determined by factors such as the following:
       uncommitted cash reserves
       reserve borrowing power
     O excess plant capacity

       unintroduced but on-the-shelf new products


     What are the competitor's fixed versus variable costs? Its cost
     of unused capacity? These will influence its probable re-
     sponses to change.
     What is the competitor's ability to adapt and respond to
     changed conditions in each functional area? For example, can
     the competitor adapt to
      O competing on cost?

        managing more complex product lines?
        adding new products?
      o competing on service?

        escalation in marketing activity?
     Can the competitor respond to possible exogenous events
     such as
        a sustained high rate of inflation?
      o technological changes which make obsolete existing plant?
      o a recession?

        increases in wage rates?
        the most probable forms of government regulation that
        will affect this business?
     Does the competitor have exit barriers which will tend to keep
     it from scaling down or divesting its operations in the busi-
     ness?

                                  (after     )   (-
                                               (E)  ) x ( earnings )
                                         tax             fraction of
'OS~,.h,bl.   growth = ( t ~ ~ ~ ~ ereturn
                                      r )    x     x
                                   on sales                retained
1   A Framework for Competitor Analysis                                    67
I
           Does the competitor share manufacturing facilities, a sales
           force, or other facilities or personnel with other units of its
           corporate parent? These may provide constraints to adapta-
           tion and/or may impede cost control.


           what is the ability of the competitor to sustain a protracted
           battle, which may put pressure on earnings or cash flow? This
           will be a function of considerations such as the following:
             cash reserves
           O unanimity among management

             long time horizon in its financial goals
             lack of stock market pressure


    Putting the Four Components Together-The
    Competitor Response Profile

        Given an analysis of a competitor's future goals, assumptions,
    current strategies, and capabilities, we can begin to ask the critical
    questions that will lead to a profile of how a competitor is likely to
    respond.


        OFFENSIVE MOVES

          The first step is to predict the strategic changes the competitor
    might initiate.
          1 . Satisfaction with current position. Comparing the competi-
    tor's (and its parent company's) goals with its current position, is the
    competitor likely to attempt to initiate strategic change?
          2. Probable moves. Based on the competitor's goals, assump-
    tions, and capabilities relative to its existing position, what are the
    most probable strategic changes the competitor will make? These
    will reflect the competitor's views about the future, what it believes
    its strengths to be, which of its rivals it thinks are vulnerable, how it
    likes to compete, the biases brought to the business by top manage-
    ment, and other considerations suggested by the preceding analysis.
          3. Strength and seriousness of moves. The analysis of a com-
    petitor's goals and capabilities can be used to assess the expected
68                                              COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

strength of these probable moves. It is also important to assess what
the competitor may gain from the move. For example, a move that
will allow the competitor to share costs with another division, there-
by dramatically changing its relative cost position, may be a lot more
significant than a move that leads to an incremental gain in market-
ing effectiveness. An analysis of the probable gain from the move
coupled with knawledge of the competitor's goals will give an indi-
cation of how serious the competitor will be in pursuing the move in
the face of resistance.


     DEFENSIVE CAPABILITY

      The next step in building a response profile is to construct a list
of the range of feasible strategic moves a firm in the industry might
make and a list of the possible industry and environmental changes
that might occur. These can be assessed against the following criteria
to determine the competitor's defensive capability, with inputs com-
ing from the analysis in previous sections.
      1. Vulnerability. To what strategic moves and governmental,
macroeconomic or industry events would the competitor be most
vulnerable? What events have asymmetrical profit consequences,
that is, affect a competitor's profits more or less than they affect the
initiating firm's? What moves would require so much capital to re-
taliate against or follow that the competitor cannot risk them?
     2. Provocation. What moves or events are such that they will
provoke a retaliation from competitors even though retaliation may
be costly and lead to marginal financial performance? That is, what
moves threaten a competitor's goals or position so much that it will
be forced to retaliate, like it or not? Most competitors will have hot
buttons, or areas of the business where a threat will lead to a dispro-
portionate response. Hot buttons reflect strongly held goals, emo-
tional commitments, and the like. Where possible, they are to be
avoided.
     3. Effectiveness of retaliation. To what moves or events is the
competitor impeded from reacting to quickly and/or effectively
given its goals, strategy, existing capabilities, and assumptions?
What courses of action might be taken in which the competitor
would not be effective if it tries to match or emulate them?
     Figure 3-3 presents a simple schematic diagram for analyzing a
competitor's defensive capabilities. The left-hand column lists first
FIGURE 53 A Scheme for Assessing a Competitor's Defensive Capability
                                                          Degree to which the
                                  Vulnerability of        Everrt will Provoke     Effectiveness of the
                                  the Competitor            Retaliation by      Competitor's Retaliation
            Events                  to the Event           the Competitor            to the Event
          Feasible
      Strategic Moves
        by our Firm
List all alternatives such as:
  Fill out the line
  Increase product quality
  and service
  Reduce price and compete
  on costs

         Feasible
       Environmental
         Changes
List all changes such as:
  Major increase in raw
  material costs
  Downturn in sales
  Increase in cost con-
  sciousness of buyers
70                                               COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

the feasible strategic moves some firm might make and then the envi-
ronmental and industry changes that could possibly occur (including
probable moves by competitors). These events can then be subjected
to the questions listed across the top. The resulting matrix should
help pick the most effective strategy, given the reality that competi-
tors will respond, and can facilitate rapid response to industry and
environmental events that will expose a competitor's weaknesses.
(Concepts for making competitive moves are discussed in detail in
Chapter 5.)

     PICKING THE BATTLEGROUND

      Assuming that competitors will retaliate to moves a firm initi-
ates, its strategic agenda is selecting the best battleground for fighting
it out with its competitors. This battleground is the market segment
or dimensions of strategy in which competitors are ill-prepared, least
enthusiastic, or most uncomfortable about competing. The best bat-
tleground may be competition based on costs, centered at the high or
low end of the product line, or other areas.
      The ideal is to find a strategy that competitors are frozen from
 reacting to given their present circumstances. The legacy of their
 past and current strategy may make some moves very costly for com-
 petitors to follow, while posing much less difficulty and expense for
 the initiating firm. For example, when Folger's Coffee invaded Max-
 well House strongholds in the east with price cutting, the cost of
matching these cuts were enormous for Maxwell House because of
its large market share.
      Another key strategic concept deriving from competitor analy-
sis is creating a situation of mixed motives or conflicting goals for
competitors. This strategy involves finding moves for which retalia-
tion, though effective, would hurt the competitor's broader posi-
tion. For example, as IBM responds to the threat of the minicom-
puter with its own minicomputer, it may hasten the decline in growth
of its large computers and accelerate the changeover to minicomput-
ers. Placing competitors in a situation of conflicting goals can be a
very effective strategic approach for attacking established firms that
have been successful in their markets. Small firms and newly entered
firms often have very little legacy in the existing strategies .in the in-
dustry and can reap great rewards from finding strategies that penal-
ize competitors for their stake in these existing strategies.
I                   A Frame work for Competitor Analysis                                 71

                          Realistically, competitors will not often be completely frozen or
                    even torn by mixed motives. In this case, the questions posed above
                    should help to identify those strategic moves that will put the initiat-
                    ing firm in the best position to fight the competitive battle when it

!
I




    1
                .
                    comes. This means taking advantage of an understanding of compet-
                    itor goals and assumptions to avoid effective retaliation whenever
                    possible and picking the battlefield where the firm's distinctive abil-
                    ity represents the most formidable artillery.


    I               Competitor Analysis and Industry Forecasting

                         An analysis of each significant existing and potential competi-
                    tor can be used as an important input to forecasting future industry
                    conditions. The knowledge of each competitor's probable moves
                    and capacity to respond to change can be summed up, and competi-
                    tors can be seen as interacting with each other on a simulated basis to
                    answer questions such as the following:
                           What are the implications of the interaction of the probable
        I                  competitors' moves that have been identified?
        I                  Are firms' strategies converging and likely to clash?
                           Do firms have sustainable growth rates that match the indus-
        t                  try's forecasted growth rate, or will a gap be created that will
                           invite entry?
                           Will probable moves combine to hold implications for indus-
                           try structure?



            I
            !       The Need for a Competitor Intelligence System

            1'           Answering these questions about competitors creates enormous
                    needs for data. Intelligence data on competitors can come from
                    many sources: reports filed publicly, speeches by a competitor's
                    management to security analysts, the business press, the sales force,
                    a firm's customers or suppliers that are common to competitors, in-
                    spection of a competitor's products, estimates by the firm's engi-
                    neering staff, knowledge gleaned from managers or other personnel
72                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

 who have left the competitor's employment, and so on. Souces of
data are described in more detail in Appendix B. It is unlikely that
data to support a full competitor analysis could be compiled in one
 massive effort. The data to make the subtle judgments implied by
 these questions usually come in trickles rather than rivers and must
 be put together over a period of time to yield a comprehensive pic-
ture of the competitor's situation.
      Compiling the data for a sophisticated competitor analysis
probably requires more than just hard work. To be effective, there is
the need for an organized mechanism-some sort of competitor in-
telligence system-to insure that the process is efficient. The ele-
ments of a competitor intelligence system can vary according to the
 particular firm's needs, based on its industry, its staff capability,
and its managements' interests and talents. Figure 3-4 diagrams the
functions that must be performed in developing the data for sophis-
ticated competitor analysis and gives some options for how each
function might be performed. In some companies all these functions
can be performed effectively by one person, but this seems to be the
exception rather than the rule. There are numerous sources for field
data and published data, and many individuals in a company can
usually contribute. Furthermore, compiling, cataloging, digesting,
and communicating these data in an effective fashion are usually be-
yond the capabilities of one person.
      One observes a variety of alternative ways firms organize to per-
form these functions in practice. They range from a competitor anal-
ysis group that is part of the planning department and performs all
the functions (perhaps drawing on others in the organization for col-
lecting field data); to a competitor intelligence coordinator who per-
forms the compiling, cataloging, and communication functions; to a
system in which the strategist does it all informally. All too often,
however, no one is made responsible for the competitor analysis at
all. There seems to be no single correct way to collect competitor
data, but it is clear that someone must take an active interest or
much useful information will be lost. Top management can do a lot
to stimulate the effort by requiring sophisticated profiles of competi-
tors as part of the planning process. As a minimum, some manager
with the responsibility to serve as the focal point for competitor in-
telligence gathering seems to be necessary.
      Each of the functions can also be performed in a number of dif-
ferent ways, as noted in Figure 3-4. The options shown cover a range
of degrees of sophistication and completeness. A small firm may not
FIGURE 5 4 Functions of a Competitor Intelligence System


                                                                Collecting Published D a t a


     Sources:   Sales force                               Sources:   Articles
                Engineering staff                                    Newspaper in
                Distribution channels                                  competitors' locations
                Suppliers                                            Want ads
                Advertising agencies                                 Government documents
                Personnel hired from                                 Speeches by management
                  competitors                                        Analyst reports
                Professional meetings                                Filings to government and
                Trade associations                                     regulatory agencies
                Market research firms                                Patent records
                Reverse engineering                                  Court records
                Security analysts                                    Etc.
                Etc.

                                                      IOptions
                                                          Clipping services for information about
                                                            competitors
                                                          Interviewing individuals who come into
                                                            contact with competitors
                                                          Forms for reporting competitors' key events
                                                            to a central clearinghouse
                                                          Required regular situation reports on
                                                                         by selected management

                                                                          Options
                                                          Files on competitors
                                                          Competitor library and assigned librarian
                                                            or competitor analysis coordinator
                                                          Abstracting of sources
                                                          Computer cataloging of sources and
                                                            abstracts

                                                                          Options
                                                          Ranking data by the reliability of the
                                                            source
                                                          Summaries of the data
                                                          Digests of competitors' annual reports
                                        Digestive         Quarterly comparative financial analyses
                                        Analysis            of key competitors
                                                          Relative product line analysis
                                                          Estimation of competitors' cost curves
                                                            and relative costs
                                                          Pro-forma financial statements on
                                                            competitors under different scenarios
                                                            about the economy, prices, and
                                                      -     competitive conditions

                                                      Ioplions
                                                          Regular compilation of clippings to
                                                            key managers
                                                          Regular competitor newsletter or
                                                            situation reports
                                                          In-depth, perpetually updated reports


                                                      L
                                                            on competitors
                                                          Competitor briefings in the planning
                                                            process


                                 Competitor Analysis
                               for Strategy Formulation
                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

have the resources or staff to attempt some of the more sophisticated
approaches, whereas a company with a large stake in successfully
reading some key competitors should probably be doing all of them.
Whatever the level of sophistication, the importance of the commu-
nication function cannot be stressed enough. Gathering data is a
waste of time unless they are used in formulating strategy, and cre-
ative ways must be devised to put these data in concise and usable
form to top management.
     Whatever the mechanism chosen for competitor intelligence
gathering, there are benefits to be gained from one that is formal
and involves some documentation. It is all too easy for bits and
pieces of data to be lost, and the benefits that come only from com-
bining these bits and pieces thereby foregone. Analyzing competitors
is too important to handle haphazardly.
Market Signals




A market signal is any action by a competitor that provides a direct
or indirect indication of its intentions, motives, goals, or internal sit-
uation. The behavior of competitors provides signals in a myriad of
ways. Some signals are bluffs, some are warnings, and some are ear-
nest commitments to a course of action.' Market signals are indirect
means of communicating in the marketplace, and most if not all of a
competitor's behavior can carry information that can aid in compet-
itor analysis and strategy formulation.
      Recognizing and accurately reading market signals, then, is of
major significance for developing competitive strategy, and reading
signals from behavior is an essential supplement to competitor anal-
ysis (Chapter 3). Knowledge of signaling is also important for effec-
tive competitive moves, to be discussed in Chapter 5. A prerequisite
to interpreting signals accurately is to develop a baseline competitor
analysis: an understanding of competitors' future goals, assump-
tions about the market and themselves, current strategies, and capa-
bilities. Reading market signals, a second-order form of competitor
analysis, rests on subtle judgments about competitors based on the
'There is substantial evidence to be found in the experimental literature on oli-
 gopolies, as well as in casual observation of competitive behavior, that market sig-
 naling occurs. For an interesting experimental study that verifies the importance
 of signaling, see Fouraker and Siege1 (1960).
76                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

comparison of known aspects of their situations with their behavior.
As we will see, the many subtleties in interpreting signals will require
ongoing comparisons between behavior and the sort of competitor
analysis in Chapter 3.



Types of Market Signals

     Market signals can have two fundamentally different functions:
they can be truthful indications of a competitor's motives, inten-
tions, or goals or they can be bluffs. Bluffs are signals designed to
mislead other firms into taking or not taking an action to benefit the
signaler. Discerning the difference between a bluff and a true signal
can often involve subtle judgments.
     Market signals take a variety of forms, depending on the partic-
ular competitor behavior involved and the medium employed. In dis-
cussing different forms of signals, it will be important to indicate
how they may be used as bluffs, and how a bluff and a true signal
might be distinguished.
     The important forms of market signals are as follows:


     PRIOR ANNOUNCEMENTS O F MOVES

     The form, character, and timing of prior announcements can be
potent signals. A prior announcement is a formal communication
made by a competitor that it either will or will not take some action,
such as building a plant, changing price, and so on. An announce-
ment does not necessarily insure that an action will be taken; an-
nouncements can be made that are not carried out in practice, either
because nothing was done or a later announcement nullified the ac-
tion. his property of announcements adds to their signaling value,
as will be discussed.
     In general, prior announcements can serve a number of signal-
ing functions that are not mutually exclusive. First, they can be at-
tempts to stake out a commitment to take an action for the purposes
of preempting other competitors. If a competitor announces a major
new capacity addition which is sufficient to meet all expected indus-
try growth, for example, it may be trying to dissuade other firms
from adding capacity, which would lead to industry overcapacity.
Market Signals                                                                   77

Or as has been typical of IBM, a competitor may announce a new
product well before it is ready for the marketplace, seeking to get
buyers to wait for its new product rather than buy a competitor's
product in the interim.2 Berkey, for example, has charged in its anti-
trust suit against Kodak that Eastman Kodak disclosed new camera
products far in advance of production to discourage sales of compet-
ing products.
     Second, announcements can be threats of actions to be taken if
a competitor follows through with a planned move. If firm A learns
of competitor B's intentions to lower its price on selected items in the
product line (or competitor B announces such intentions), for exam-
ple, then firm A might announce the intention to lower its price sig-
nificantly below B's. This may deter B from going through with the
price change, because B now knows that A is unhappy with the lower
 rice and is willing to start a price war.
     Third, announcements can be tests of competitor sentiments,
taking advantage of the fact that they need not necessarily be carried
out. Firm A might announce a new warranty program to see how
others in the industry will react. If they react predictably, then A will
follow through with the change as planned. If competitors send sig-
nals of displeasure or announce somewhat different warranty pro-
grams than A has proposed, then A might either withdraw the
planned move or announce a revised warranty program to match
that of its competitors.
     This sequence of actions suggests a fourth role of announce-
ments related to their role as threats. Announcements can be a
means of communicating pleasure or displeasure with competitive
developments in the industry.' Announcing a move that falls in line
with a competitor's move might indicate pleasure, whereas announc-
ing a punishing move or a substantially different approach to the
same end can indicate displeasure.
     A fifth and common function of announcements is to serve as
conciliatory steps aimed at minimizing the provocation of a forth-
'See Brock (1975).
'Competitors can also comment on their pleasure or displeasure directly through
 interviews, speeches to security analysts, and so on. But announcing that they will
 do something, in response to a firm's move, is usually a more binding commit-
 ment to their position than mere statements of pleasure or displeasure. This is be-
 cause reneging on an announcement carries a greater cost in credibility than taking
 an action inconsistent with what was said in an interview or speech. Sometimes in-
 terviews and speeches are used to signal displeasure to cause another firm to
 change its mind, and if this tactic is not successful an announcement is made that
 the firm will follow the move.
78                                                COMPETITIVE STRATEGY
 coming strategic adjustment. The announcement seeks to avoid hav-
 ing a strategic adjustment touch off a round of unwelcomed retalia-
 tion and warfare. For example, firm A might decide that price levels
 need to be adjusted downward in the industry. Announcing this
 move well ahead of time, and justifying it in terms of specific
 changes in costs, can avoid having firm B read the price change as an
 aggressive bid for market share and retaliating vigorously. This role
 of announcements is particularly common when a necessary strate-
gic adjustment is not meant to be aggressive. However, announce-
 ments like these can also be designed to lull competitors into a sense
of security in order to facilitate the implementation of an aggressive
move. This is one of many instances when a signal can be a double-
edged sword.
      A sixth function of announcements is to avoid costly simulta-
neous moves in areas like capacity additions, where bunching of new
plant additions would lead to overcapacity. Firms might announce
expansion plans well in advance, facilitating the scheduling of capac-
ity additions by competitors in a sequence that will minimize overca-
pa~ity.~
      A final function of announcements can be communication with
the financial community, for purposes of boosting stock price or im-
proving the reputation of the company. This common practice
means that firms often have a public relations motive in presenting
their situation in the best possible light. Announcements of this char-
acter can cause trouble by sending inappropriate signals to compet-
itors.
      Announcements can also sometimes serve the purpose of coa-
lescing internal support for a move. Committing the firm to do
something publicly can be a way of cutting off internal debate about
its desirability. Announcements of financial goals not infrequently
serve this function of rallying support.
      It should be clear from the above discussion that an entire com-
petitive battle can be waged through announcements before a single
dollar of resources is expended. A fairly recent sequence of an-
nouncements among producers of computer memories provides an
illustration of this occurrence. Texas Instruments announced a price
for random access memories to be available two years hence. One
week later, Bowmar announced a lower price. Three weeks later,
Motorola announced an even lower price. Finally, two weeks after
'Such a process not infrequently breaks down. See Chapter 15, "Capacity EX-
 pansion. "
Market Signals                                                             79

this, Texas Instruments announced a price of half of Motorola's,
and the other firms decided not to produce the product. Thus, before
any major investments were actually made, Texas Instruments had
won the battle.s Similarly, trading announcements back and forth
can settle the size of a price change or form of a new dealer rebate
program without the need to disrupt the market and risk a battle by
actually introducing one scheme and then having to change or with-
draw it later.
     Discerning whether a prior announcement is an attempt at pre-
emption or is a conciliatory move is obviously a crucial distinction to
make correctly. A place to start in making such a distinction is with
an analysis of the lasting benefits that might accrue to the competi-
tor from p r e e m p t i ~ n .If~ there are such lasting benefits, a preemp-
tive motive must be taken as a strong possibility. If there are few
benefits from preemption, on the other hand, or if the competitor
acting in its narrow self-interest could have done better through a
surprise move, then conciliation may be indicated. An announce-
ment that discloses an action much less damaging to others than it
might have been, given the competitor's capabilities, may usually be
viewed as conciliatory. Another clue to motives is the timing of the
announcement relative to when the action is set to occur. Announce-
ments far in advance of a move tend to be conciliatory, other things
being equal, though it is difficult to generalize completely.
     It should be clearly noted that announcements can be bluffs, be-
cause they need not always be carried out. As described, an an-
nouncement can be a way to communicate a firm's commitment to
carrying out a threat for purposes of causing a competitor to either
back down from or tone down a move or to not initiate it in the first
place. For example, a firm can announce a large plant designed to
maintain its share of industry capacity in the face of other capacity
announcements it seeks to have cancelled, where the effect of its
plant will be to create major overcapacity in the industry. If a bluff
for these purposes fails, there may be little incentive for the bluffer
to carry out the threat. However, whether or not a threat or other
commitment is carried out has critical implications for the credibility
of future commitments and future announcements. In extreme cases
'For such an outcome to occur Texas Instruments must have also credibly
 demonstrated its commitment, from other actions, that it would actually sell
 memories at the low prices. Without this, entry by competitors would not have
 been deterred. (See Chapter 5.)
'Chapter 15 discusses the conditions supporting a preemptive strategy.
80                                                  COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

an announcement can be a bluff designed to trick competitors into
expending resources in gearing up to defend against a nonexistent
threat,
     Prior announcements by competitors can and do occur in a vari-
ety of media: official press releases, speeches by management to se-
curities analysts, interviews with the press, and other forms. The
medium chosen for the announcement is one clue to its underlying
motives. The more formal the announcement, the more the an-
nouncing firm wants to be sure that the message will be heard, and
the broader the audience it probably seeks to reach. The medium for
the announcement also affects who will see it. An announcement in a
specialized trade journal is likely to be noticed only by competitors
or other industry participants. This may carry a different connota-
tion from an announcement made to a broad audience of security
analysis or to the national business press. A prior announcement to a
broad audience may be a way of establishing a "public" commit-
ment to do something that is perceived by competitors as being hard
to back down from, with the consequent deterrent value.'


     ANNOUNCEMENTS OF RESULTS OR ACTIONS AFTER THE
     FACT

     Firms often announce (verify) plant additions, sales figures, and
other results or actions after they have occurred. Such announce-
ments may carry signals, particularly to the degree that they disclose
data that are hard to get otherwise and/or are surprising for the an-
nouncing firm to make public. The after-the-fact announcement has
the function of insuring that other firms know and take note of the
data disclosed-which can influence their behavior.
     Like any announcement, an ex post announcement can be wrong
or more likely misleading, although this does not seem to be com-
mon. Many such announcements refer to data like market shares
that are not audited nor are subject to full SEC screening procedures
and liability. Firms sometimes announce misleading data if they be-
lieve such data can be preemptive or can communicate commitment.
An example of this tactic is announcing sales figures that include the
sales of some related products outside the narrow product category
in the total, that is, inflating apparent market share. Another tactic
'See Chapter 5 for a discussion of the significance of commitment and deterrence
 in competitive situations.
Market Signals                                                               81

is to quote final capacity for a new plant, even though reaching that
capacity will take a second addition, while representing the final ca-
pacity implicitly as initial c a p a ~ i t y If
                                             . ~ the firm can learn about or
deduce such misleading practices, they will carry important signals
about the competitor's objectives and true competitive strengths.


     PUBLIC DISCUSSIONS OF THE INDUSTRY BY COMPETITORS

     It is not uncommon for competitors to comment on industry
conditions, including forecasts of demand and prices, forecasts of
future capacity, the significance of external changes such as material
cost increases, and so on. Such commentary is laden with signals be-
cause it may expose the commenting firm's assumptions about the
industry on which it is presumably building its own strategy. As
such, this discussion can be a conscious or unconscious attempt to
get other firms to operate under the same assumptions and thereby
minimize the chances of mistaken motives and warfare. Such com-
mentary can also contain implicit pleas for price discipline: "Price
competition is still very harsh. The industry is doing a lousy job of
passing along increased costs to the c o n s ~ m e r . ""The
                                                        ~    problem in
this industry is that some firms do not recognize that these current
prices will be detrimental to our ability to grow and produce a qual-
ity product in the long run.'"' Or discussions of the industry may
contain implicit pleas that other firms add capacity in an orderly
fashion, not engage in excessive advertising competition, not break
ranks in dealing with large customers, or any number of other
things, as well as implicit promises to cooperate if others act "prop-
erly."
     Of course, the firm making the comments may be seeking to in-
terpret industry conditions in such a way as to improve its own posi-
tion. It may prefer that prices fall, for example, and may therefore
describe industry conditions so that its competitors' prices appear
too high, even though competitors might truly be better off holding
their price levels. This possibility implies that firms reading the sig-
 'This action is to be clearly distinguished from announcing existing capacity
  accurately and also simultaneously announcing plans for future expansion.
 'President of Sherwin-Williams Coating Group, commenting on the paint industry
   in "A Thin Coating of Profit for Paint Makers," Business Week, August 14,
   1977.
10
   Executive of a leading commodities producer in a speech to security analysts.
82                                              COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

nals in their competitor's commentary must verify industry condi-
tions themselves and search for areas in which a competitor's posi-
tion might be improved by its interpretation of the facts, thereby
compromising its intentions.
      In addition to commentary on the industry generally, competi-
tors sometimes comment on their rival's moves directly: "The recent
extension of credit to dealers was inappropriate for X and Y rea-
sons." Such commentary can signal an indication of pleasure or dis-
pleasure with a move, but like any other public announcement, there
are alternative interpretations of its purposes. It may be self-serving
by slanting the interpretation of the desirability of the competitor's
move so that its own position is improved.
      Sometimes firms praise competitors by name or the industry
generally. This has occurred, for example, in hospital management.
Such praise is usually a conciliatory gesture aimed at reducing ten-
sions or ending undesirable practices. It is most common in indus-
tries in which all firms are affected by the industry's collective image
with the customer group or financial community.


     COMPETITORS' DISCUSSIONS AND EXPLANATIONS OF
     THEIR OWN MOVES

     Competitors often discuss their own moves in public or in fo-
rums where the discussion is likely to reach other firms. A common
example of the latter is to discuss a move with major customers or
distributors, in which case the discussion will almost surely be circu-
lated around the industry.
     A firm's explanation or discussion of its own move can serve,
consciously or unconsciously, at least three purposes. First, it may
be an attempt to get other firms to see the logic of a move and hence
follow it or to communicate that the move is not to be taken as a
provocation. Second, explanations or discussions of moves can be
preemptive gestures. Firms introducing a new product or entering a
new market sometimes fill the press with stories about how costly
and difficult the move was to make. This may deter other firms from
trying. Finally, such discussions of moves may be an attempt to
communicate commitment. The competitor can stress the large
amount of resources expended and its long-run commitment to a
new area to try to convince rivals that it is there to stay and to not at-
tempt to displace it.
        Market Signals


             COMPETITORS' TACTICS RELATIVE TO WHAT THEY
             COULD HAVE DONE
    I

    I        Relative to what a competitor could have feasibly chosen to do,
        the prices and advertising levels actually chosen, the size of capacity
        additions, specific product characteristics adopted, and so on, all
        carry important signals about motives. To the degree that its choices
        of strategic variables was the worst it could have taken with respect
        to damaging other firms, this is a strong aggressive signal. If it could
        have hurt competitors more with strategies other than the one
        chosen, which were within its set of feasible alternatives (e.g., a price
        higher than the competitor's cost might justify), this potentially sig-
1       nals conciliation. A competitor behaving in a way inconsistent with
        its narrowly defined self-interest may implicitly be signaling concili-
        ation as well.


             MANNER IN WHICH STRATEGIC CHANGES ARE INITIALLY
             IMPLEMENTED

              A competitor's new product can be initially introduced in a pe-
        ripheral market, or it can immediately be aggressively sold to the key
        customers of its rivals. A price change may be made initially on
        products that represent the heart of a competitor's product line, or
        the price changes can be first put into effect in product or market
        segments where the competitor does not have a great interest. A
        move can be made at the normal time of the year for adjustments of
        its type, or it can be made at an unusual time. These are just exam-
        ples of how the manner in which almost any strategic change is im-
        plemented can help differentiate between a competitor's desire to in-
I
        flict a penalty and its desire to make a move in the best interests of
        the industry as a whole. As usual where such motives are involved,
        however, there is the risk of bluffs.


            DIVERGENCE FROM PAST GOALS

             If a competitor has historically produced products exclusively at
        the high end of the product spectrum, its introduction of a signifi-
        cantly inferior product is an indication of a potential major realign-
84                                                     COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

ment in goals or assumptions. Such a divergence from past goals in
any other area of strategy carries a similar message. These diver-
gences should probably lead to a period of intense attention to sig-
naling and competitor analysis.

     DIVERGENCE FROM INDUSTRY PRECEDENT

     A move that diverges from industry norms is usually an aggres-
sive signal. Examples include discounting products that have never
been discounted in the industry and plant construction in an entirely
new geographic area or new country.

     THE CROSS-PARRY

     When one firm initiates a move in one area and a competitor re-
sponds in a different area with one that affects the initiating firm,
the situation can be called a cross-parry. This situation occurs not in-
frequently when firms compete in different geographic areas or have
multiple product lines that do not completely overlap. For example,
an East-Coast-based firm entering the western market may see a
western firm in turn entering the eastern market. A situation not far
from this occurred in the roasted coffee industry. Maxwell House
has long been strong in the East, whereas Folger's strength is in the
West. Folger's, acquired by Procter and Gamble, moved to increase
its penetration in the eastern markets through some aggressive mar-
keting. Maxwell countered, in part, by cutting prices and raising
marketing expenditures in some of Folger's key western markets.
Another example may be occurring in the machinery sector. Deere
entered the earthmoving industry in the late 1950s with a strategy
similar to Caterpillar's. Deere has recently pushed even harder to
penetrate some of Caterpillar's key markets. Rumors are now ram-
pant that Caterpillar is planning to enter the farm equipment indus-
try, where Deere is strong.ll
     The cross-parry response represents a choice by the defending
firm not to counter the initial move directly but to counter it indi-
rectly. By responding indirectly, the defending firm may well be try-
ing not to trigger a set of destructive moves and countermoves in the
encroached-upon market but yet clearly to signal displeasure and
raise the threat of serious retaliation later.
"A rumor, as well as an actual move, can serve as a cross-parry.
Market Signals                                                         85

     If the cross-parry is directed toward one of the original initia-
tor's "bread and butter" markets, it may be interpreted as a serious
warning. If it is directed toward a minor market, it may signal a
warning of things to come but also the hope of not triggering any
unsettling or hasty counterresponse by the original initiator. A re-
sponse in a minor market may also signal that the defender will raise
the ante with a more threatening cross-parry later if the initiator
does not back off.
     The cross-parry can be a particularly effective way to discipline
a competitor if there is a great divergence of market shares. For ex-
ample, if the cross-parry involves a price cut, the cost of meeting this
price cut for the firm with the bigger share may be a lot greater than
for the firm sending the signal. This fact can increase the pressure
placed on the original instigator to back off.
     An implication of all this analysis is that maintaining a small
position in such cross-markets can be a useful potential deterrent.


    THE FIGHTING BRAND

      A form of signal related to the cross-parry is the fighting brand.
A firm threatened or potentially threatened by another can introduce
a brand that has the effect-whether this is the only motivation for
the brand or not-of punishing or threatening to punish the source
of the threat. For example, Coca-Cola introduced a new brand
called Mr. Pibb in the mid-1970s which tasted very much like Dr.
Pepper, a brand that was gaining market share. Maxwell House in-
troduced a coffee brand called Horizon, which had similar charac-
teristics and package design to Folger's, in some markets where Fol-
ger's was seeking to gain position. Fighting brands can be meant as
warnings or deterrents or as shock troops to absorb the brunt of a
competitive attack. They are also often introduced with little push or
support before any serious attack occurs, thereby serving as a warn-
ing. Fighting brands can also be used as offensive weapons as part of
a larger campaign.


    PRIVATE ANTITRUST SUITS

    If a firm files a private antitrust suit challenging a competitor, it
can be taken as a signal of displeasure or in some cases as harass-
86                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

ment or a delaying tactic. Private suits can thus be viewed a lot like
cross-parries. Since a private suit can be dropped at any time by the
initiating firm, it is potentially a mild signal of displeasure relative
to, for example, a competitive price cut. The suit may be saying,
"You have pushed too far this time and had better back off," with-
out taking the risks that would accompany a direct confrontation in
the marketplace. For the weaker firm suing the stronger firm, the
suit may be a way of sensitizing the stronger firm so that it will not
undertake any aggressive actions while the suit is outstanding. If the
stronger firms feels itself under legal scrutiny, its power may be ef-
fectively neutralized.
     For large firms suing smaller firms, private antitrust suits can
be thinly veiled devices to inflict penalties. Suits force the weaker
firm to bear extremely high legal costs over a long period of time and
also divert its attention from competing in the market. Or, following
the argument above, a suit can be a low-risk way of telling the
weaker firm that it is attempting to bite off too much of the market.
The oustanding suit can be left effectively dormant through legal
maneuvering and selectively activated (inflicting costs on the weaker
firm) if the weaker firm shows signs of misreading the signal.



The Use of History in Identifying Signals

      Studying the historical relationship between a firm's announce-
ments and its moves, or between other varieties of potential signals
and the subsequent outcomes, can greatly improve one's ability to
read signals accurately. Searching for signs a competitor may have
inadvertently given before making changes in the past can also help
to uncover new types of unconscious signals unique to that competi-
tor. Do certain activities by the sales force always precede a product
change? Do product introductions always occur after a national
sales meeting? Do price changes in the existing line always precede
the introduction of a new product? Does the competitor always an-
nounce capacity addition when its level of capacity utilization reaches
a certain figure?
      Of course, in interpreting such signals there is always the possi-
bility of divergence from past behavior; ideally a full competitor
analysis will uncover economic and organizational reasons why such
a divergence might occur ahead of time.
Market Signals



Can Attention to Market Signals Be a Distraction?

     Given the subtlety of interpreting market signals, one can take
the view that too much attention to them can be a counterproductive
distraction. Rather than getting all tangled up second-guessing com-
petitors' words and actions, holds this view, companies should focus
their time and energy on competing.
     Although situations might be imagined in which top manage-
ment become so preoccupied with signals that the important tasks of
managing the business and building a strong strategic position were
neglected, this hardly justifies abandoning this potentially valuable
source of information. Strategy formulation inherently contains
some explicit or implicit assumptions about competitors and their
motives. Market signals can add greatly to the firm's stock of knowl-
edge about competitors, and therefore improve the quality of these
assumptions. Ignoring them is like ignoring competitors altogether.
 5
Cornpetit ive Moves



In most industries a central characteristic of competition is that
firms are mutually dependent: firms feel the effects of each others'
moves and are prone to react to them. In this situation, which econo-
mists call an oligopoly, the outcome of a competitive move by one
firm depends at least to some extent on the reactions of its rivals.'
"Bad" or "irrational" reactions by competitors (even weaker com-
petitors) can often make "good" strategic moves unsuccessful. Thus
success can be assured only if the competitors choose to or are influ-
enced to respond in a non-destructive way.
     In an oligopoly the firm often faces a dilemma. It can pursue
the interests (profitability) of the industry as a whole (or of some
subgroup of firms), and thereby not incite competitive reaction, or it
can behave in its own narrow self-interest at the risk of touching off
retaliation and escalating industry competition to a battle. The di-
lemma arises because choosing strategies or responses that avoid the
risk of warfare and make the industry as a whole better off (strate-
gies that can be called cooperative) may mean that the firm gives up
potential profits and market share.
     The situation is analogous to the classis Prisoners' Dilemma in
game theory, one version of which goes as folIows. Two prisoners sit
'An oligopoly falls in between a monopoly, where there is only one firm, and the
 perfectly competitive industry, where there are so many firms and entry is so easy
 that firms do not really affect each other but respond to .overall market condi-
 tions.
Competitive Moves                                                    89

in jail, each with the choice of squealing on each other or maintain-
ing silence. If neither prisoner squeals, both go free. If they both
squeal, both get hanged. If one prisoner talks and the other does not,
however, the squealer not only gets off scot-free but also collects a
bounty for his trouble. Both prisoners taken together are better off if
they can avoid squealing at all. But acting in his own self-interest,
each prisoner has an even greater incentive to squeal provided the
other does not have the same idea. Translating this problem into the
setting of oligopoly, if firms are cooperative they all can make a rea-
sonable profit. However, if one firm makes a self-interested strategic
move to which others do not retaliate effectively, it can earn even
higher profits. If its competitors retaliate vigorously against the
move, though, everybody can be worse off than if they were all co-
operative.
      This chapter presents some principles for making competitive
moves in such a setting. It considers both offensive moves to im-
prove position and defensive moves to deter competitors from taking
undesirable actions. First, this chapter draws on Chapter 1 to ex-
plore the general likelihood of competitive outbreaks in an industry,
which sets the context in which any offensive or defensive move must
be made. Next, some important considerations in making various
kinds of competitive moves are examined, including nonthreatening
or cooperative moves, threatening moves, and moves designed for
deterrence. This discussion will illustrate the crucial role of estab-
lished commitment in making moves, and approaches to doing so
will be examined in detail. Finally, some approaches that firms take
to promote industry cooperation will be discussed briefly.
      In addition to drawing on Chapter 1, this chapter will necessar-
ily draw on the basic principles of competitor analysis described in
Chapter 3 and the discussion of market signals in Chapter 4. Compet-
itor analysis is obviously a prerequisite to considering any offensive
or defensive move, and market signals are tools both for under-
standing competitors and for use in actually implementing compet-
itive moves.


Industry Instability: The Likelihood of
Competitive Warfare

     The first question for the firm in considering offensive or defen-
sive moves is the general degree of instability in the industry or the
industry-wide conditions that may mean a move will touch off wide-
                                                      COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

spread warfare. Some industries require much softer treading than
others. The underlying structure of an industry, discussed in Chapter
1, determines the intensity of competitive rivalry and the general
ease or difficulty that cooperative or warfare-avoiding outcomes can
be found. The greater the number of competitors, the more equal
their relative power, the more standardized their products, the
higher their fixed costs and other conditions that tempt them to try
to fill capacity, and the slower the industry's growth, the greater is
the likelihood that there will be repeated efforts by firms to pursue
their own self-interest. They will take actions like shading prices
(squealing), where almost sure retaliation will touch off recurring
bouts of retaliation that keep profits low. Similarly, the more diverse
or asymmetrical are competitors' goals and perspectives, the greater
their strategic stakes in the particular business and the less seg-
mented the market, the harder it will be to properly interpret each
others' moves and sustain a cooperative outcome. Broadly speaking,
both offensive and defensive moves are more risky if these condi-
tions favor intense rivalry.
     Some other conditions in an industry can make outbreaks of ri-
valry more or less likely. A history of competing or continuity of in-
teraction among the parties can promote stability since it facilitates
the building of trust (the belief that competitors are not out to bank-
rupt each other), and leads to more accurate forecasts of how com-
petitors will react. Conversely, lack of continuity will raise the
chances of competitive outbreaks. Continuity of interaction not only
depends on a stable group of competitors but also is aided by a stable
group of general managers of these competitors.
     Multiple bargaining areas, or situations in which firms are inter-
acting in more than one competitive arena, can also facilitate a sta-
ble outcome in an industry. For example, if two firms compete in
both the U.S. and European markets, one firm's gain in the U.S.
market might be offset by the other firm's gains in Europe, gains
which neither firm would tolerate individually. Multiple markets
provide a way in which one firm can reward another for not attack-
ing itY2 or conversely, provide a way of disciplining a renegade. In-
terconnections through joint ventures or joint participations can also
promote stability in an industry through fostering a cooperative ori-
entation and exposing the players to fairly complete information
about each other. Full information is usually stabilizing because it

l o r "side payments" in the jargon of game theory.
competitive Moves                                                     91

helps firms avoid mistaken reactions and keeps them from attempt-
ing ill-advised strategic initiatives.
      Industry structure influences the position of the competitors,
the pressures on them to make aggressive moves, and the degree to
which their interests are likely to conflict. Structure thus sets the
basic parameters within which competitive moves are made. How-
ever, structure does not fully determine what will take place in a
market. Rivalry also depends on the particular situations of individ-
ual competitors. Another step in assessing industry instability and
the general context for making moves is competitor analysis. Using
the techniques described in Chapter 3, it is necessary to examine the
probable moves each competitor will make, the threat provided by
moves made by its rivals, and the ability of each competitor to de-
fend itself effectively against such moves. This analysis is a prerequi-
site to developing strategies for deterrence or in deciding where and
how to make offensive moves. Here it will be assumed that such
analysis has already been done.
      The final part of assessing industry instability is determining the
nature of the information flow among firms in the market, including
the extent of their shared knowledge of industry conditions, and
ability to communicate intentions effectively through signaling. This
flow of information will be a central focus of this chapter.


Competitive Moves

     Because in an oligopoly a firm is partly dependent on the behav-
ior of its rivals, selecting the right competitive move involves finding
one whose outcome is quickly determined (no protracted or serious
battle takes place) and also skewed as much as possible toward the
firm's own interests. That is, the goal for the firm is to avoid desta-
bilizing and costly warfare, which spells poor results for all partici-
pants, but yet still outperform other firms.
     One broad approach is to use superior resources and capabilities
to force an outcome skewed toward the interests of the firm, over-
coming and outlasting retaliation-we might call this the brute force
approach. This sort of approach is possible only if the firm possesses
clear superiorities, and it is stable only as long as the firm maintains
these superiorities and as long as competitors do not misread them
and incorrectly attempt to change their positions.
92                                              COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

      Some companies seem to view competitive moves as entirely a
game of brute force: sheer resources are massed to attack a rival. A
firm's strengths and weaknesses (Chapter 3) certainly help define the
opportunities and threats it faces. However, even sheer resources are
often not enough to insure the right outcome if competitors will be
tough (or worse, desperate or seemingly irrational) in their responses
or if competitors are pursuing greatly different objectives. More-
over, possession of clear strengths is not always realistically avail-
able to every firm seeking to improve its strategic position. Finally,
even with clear strengths, a war of attrition is costly to the victor and
vanquished alike and is best avoided.
     Competitive moves are also a game of finesse. The game can be
structured and moves selected and executed in such a way as to maxi-
mize their outcome no matter what resources are available to the
firm. Ideally, a battle of retaliation never begins at all. Making com-
petitive moves in oligopoly is best thought of as a combination of
whatever brute force the firm can muster, applied with finesse.

     COOPERATIVE OR NONTHREATENING MOVES

     Moves that do not threaten competitors' goals are a place to be-
gin in searching for ways to improve position. Based on a thorough
analysis of competitors' goals and assumptions, using the frame-
work in Chapter 3, there may be moves the firm can make to in-
crease its profits (or even its share) that do not reduce the perform-
ance of its significant competitors or threaten their goals unduly.
Three categories of such moves can be usefully distinguished:
       moves that improve the firm's position and improve competi-
       tors' positions even ifthey do not match them;
       moves that improve the firm's position and improve competi-
       tors' positions only ifa significant number match them;
       moves that improve the firm's position because competitors
       will not match them.
     The first case involves the least risk if such moves can be identi-
fied. One possibility is that the firm may be engaged in practices that
not only diminish its performance but also spill over to diminish the
performance of competitors, such as an inappropriate advertising
campaign or poor pricing structure out of line with the industry. The
existence of such possibilities is a reflection of weak past strategy.
Competitive Moves                                                     93

      The second case is more common. In most industries, there are
moves that would improve everybody's situation if all firms fol-
lowed. For example, if every firm reduced its warranty from two
years to one year, all the firms' costs would fall and profitability
would increase, provided that aggregate industry demand was not
sensitive to warranty terms. Another example is a change in costs
that calls for a price adjustment. The problem with such moves is
that all firms may not follow, because the move, though improving
their positions absolutely, is not optimal for them. For example, the
firm with the highest product reliability will lose a competitive ad-
vantage if the warranty period is reduced. Competitors also may not
follow because one or more firms see the chance to improve their rel-
ative position by not following, assuming that others do follow.
      In selecting a move of this second type, the key steps are (1) as-
sessing the impact of the move on each and every major competi-
tor, and (2) assessing the pressures on each competitor to forego the
benefits of cooperating for the possible benefits of breaking ranks.
This assessment is a problem in competitor analysis. When making
moves whose success is contingent on competitors following, the risk
is that competitors will not follow. This risk is not great if the chosen
move can be cheaply rescinded or if shifts in relative company posi-
tion are either slow to occur or easy to redress. However, such a
move can be very risky if the relative positions potentially gained by
firms that choose not to participate are significant and hard to win
back.
      Identifying the third category of nonthreatening moves-moves
 that competitors will not follow-depends on a careful understand-
ing of the opportunities provided by competitors' particular goals
and assumptions. It involves finding moves to which competitors
will not respond because they do not perceive a need to d o so. For
example, a competitor may attach little significance to the Latin
American market, focusing instead on Canada as a n export opportu-
 nity. Inroads into Latin America at the expense of local companies
 may not matter at all to this competitor.
      Moves will be perceived as nonthreatening if:

       competitors d o not even notice, because the adjustments are
       largely internal for the firm making them;
       competitors will not be concerned about them because of
       their self-perceptions or assumptions about the industry and
       how to compete in it;
94                                                   COMPETITIVE STRATEGY
        competitors' performance is impaired little if at all measured
        by their own criteria.
      An example of a move combining a number of these character-
istics was Timex's entry into the watch industry in the early 1950s.'
Timex's entry strategy was to produce a very low-price watch (with-
out jeweled bearings), which was so inexpensive that it did not pay to
have it repaired. This watch was sold through drugstores and other
nonconventional watch outlets instead of through jewelry stores.
The Swiss dominated the world watch industry at the time with high-
quality, high-priced watches sold through jewelry stores and mar-
keted as precision instruments. The Swiss industry was growing
briskly in the early 1950s. The Timex watch was so different from
the Swiss watch that the Swiss did not seem to perceive it as competi-
tion at all. It did not threaten their image of quality, nor did it
threaten their position with jewelers or as the leading producers of
high-quality, high-priced watches. The Timex watch probably cre-
ated primary demand initially, rather than taking sales from the
Swiss. Furthermore, the Swiss were growing, and Tirnex was no
threat to their performance at all initially. As a result, Timex was
able to gain a secure foothold in the lower end of the market without
even attracting the attention of the Swiss.
      Executing moves so as to improve everyone's position requires
that competitors understand that the move is not threatening. Such
moves can be a common and recurring adaptation necessary because
of changed industry conditions. Yet all three categories of non-
threatening moves involve some risk that the move may be misinter-
preted as aggression.
      Firms can use a wide variety of mechanisms to avoid misin-
terpretation in such situations, though none is foolproof. Active
market signaling (Chapter 4) through announcements, public com-
mentary about the change, and the like is one option in indicating
benign intentions. For example, an elaborate discussion in the press
of cost increases that justify making a price change may help com-
municate intentions. The firm making such a move also can disci-
 pline competitors who fail to follow, such as through selective adver-
tising campaigns or selling efforts directed at those competitors'
customers. Another approach to easing risks of misinterpretation is
 'For background, see Note on the Watch Industries in Switzerland, Japan and the
  United States, Intercollegiate Case Clearinghouse 9-373-090; and Timex (A), In-
  tercollegiateCase Clearinghouse 6-373-080.
Competitive Moves                                                       95

reliance on a traditional industry leader. In some industries, one
firm historically takes the leadership role in adjusting to new condi-
tions; other firms wait for it to move first and then follow. Another
mechanism is to associate prices or other decision variables to some
~ e a d i l yvisible index, such as the consumer price index, to facilitate
adjustments. Focal points, to be discussed below, are a coordinating
mechanism that can also be employed.



     THREATENING MOVES


      Many moves that would significantly improve a firm's position
do threaten competitors, since this is the essence of oligopoly. Thus a
key to the success of such moves is predicting and influencing retalia-
tion. If retaliation is rapid and effective, then such a move may leave
the mover no better off or even worse off. If retaliation is very bit-
ter, the initiator can actually come out a lot worse off than it started.
      In considering threatening moves, the key questions are as fol-
lows:
    1. How likely is retaliation?
    2. How soon will retaliation come?
    3. How effective will retaliation potentially be?
    4. How tough will retaliation be, where toughness refers to the
       willingness of the competitor to retaliate strongly even at its
       own expense?
    5. Can retaliation be influenced?

     Because the framework for competitor analysis in Chapter 3 ad-
dresses a number of these questions, we will concentrate our atten-
tion here on predicting lags in retaliation to offensive moves. Many
of these considerations can be turned around to help develop defen-
sive strategy. Influencing retaliation will also be discussed in the sec-
tion on commitment later in this chapter.



     Other things being equal, the firm will want t o make the move
that gives it the most time before its competitors can effectively re-
taliate. In a defensive context, the firm will want competitors to be-
96                                               COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

lieve that it will retaliate quickly and effectively to their moves. Lags
in retaliation stem from four basic sources:
       perceptual lags;
       lags in mounting a retaliatory strategy;
       inability to pinpoint retaliation, which raises its short-run cost;
       lags caused by conflicting goals or mixed motives.
      The first source, perceptual lags, involves delay in competitors
 perceiving or noticing the initial strategic move, either because the
 move was kept secret or introduced quietly away from competitors'
centers of attention (e.g., with small customers or foreign custom-
ers). Sometimes, by being secretive or keeping a low profile, a firm
can make a move or build a new capability before competitors can
effectively retaliate. Also, competitors may not immediately per-
ceive a move as significant because of their goals, perceptions of the
marketplace, and so on. The example of the introduction of the
Timex watch serves here as well. Long after Timex began to cut into
the sales of the Swiss and American producers, the Timex watch was
seen by them as an inferior junk product not requiring retaliation.
      Perceptual lags depend partly on the mechanisms firms have in
place for monitoring competitive behavior, and these lags can be in-
fluenced. When competitors are dependent on outside statistical
sources like trade associations to provide the base data against which
they compute market share, then they may not be able to notice
moves until such data are published. Perceptual lags may sometimes
be lengthened by diversionary tactics, such as introducing a product
or making some other move in an area away from that in which the
key initiative is to take place. From a defensive point of view percep-
tual lags may be shortened by having a competitor monitoring sys-
tem in place which continually assembles data from the field sales-
force, distributors, and so on. With careful monitoring, competitors
can actually learn about moves ahead of time because the competitor
must make advance commitments for advertising space, equipment
delivery, and the like. If systems for competitor monitoring are
known to competitors, all the better for deterrence.
     Lags in mounting a retaliatory campaign vary with the type of
initial move. Retaliation to a price cut can be immediate, but it may
take years for a defensive research effort to match a product change
or for modern capacity to be put on stream to match a competitor's
new plant. A new automobile model requires three years from plan-
ning to introduction, for example. A large, modern blast furnace for
Competitive Moves                                                      97

             pig iron or an integrated papermaking plant requires
three to five years to build.
      These lags in retaliation can also be influenced by a firm's ac-
tions. A firm can pick offensive moves against which competitors
face a slow process of mounting effective retaliation, given natural
lead times coupled with internal weaknessses. From a defensive
standpoint, retaliation time can be shortened by building up retalia-
tory resources even though they may never be used. For example,
new product offerings may be developed but held in reserve, machin-
ery can be ordered at the risk of modest cancellation payments, and
SO on.
      Lags caused by the inability to pinpoint retaliation are analo-
gous to the problem of having to disassemble an entire television set
to replace one faulty transistor. Particularly for larger firms reacting
to moves by smaller ones, retaliatory moves may have to be general-
ized to all customers rather than restricted to the customers or mar-
ket segments that are being contested. For example, to match a price
cut by a small competitor, a large firm may have to give a price dis-
count to all its customers, at enormous expense. If a firm can find
moves that are much less costly for it to make than they are for its
competitors to respond to, it can produce lags in retaliation and
sometimes even deter retaliation altogether.
      Lags in retaliation caused by conflicting goals or mixed motives
are a final important situation which has wide applicability in the
study of competitive interaction. This is the situation, introduced in
Chapter 3, in which one firm makes a move that threatens some of a
competitor's business, but if the competitor retaliates quickly and
vigorously, it hurts itself elsewhere in its business. This effect poten-
tially creates a lag in retaliation (and a reduction in its effectiveness)
or even prevents retaliation altogether. Part of the lag may be in the
extra time needed to thrash out internal conflicts.
      Finding a situation that catches the key competitor or compet-
itors with conflicting goals is at the heart of many company suc-
cess stories. The slow Swiss reaction to the Timex watch provides an
example. Timex sold its watches through drugstores, rather than
through the traditional jewelry store outlets for watches, and empha-
sized very low cost, the need for no repair, and the fact that a watch
was not a status item but a functional part of the wardrobe. The
strong sales of the Timex watch eventually threatened the financial
and growth goals of the Swiss, but it also raised an important dilem-
ma for them were they to retaliate against it directly. The Swiss had a
98                                                  COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

big stake in the jewelry store as a channel and a large investment in
the Swiss image of the watch as a piece of fine precision jewelry. Ag-
gressive retaliation against Timex would have helped legitimize the
Timex concept, threatened the needed cooperation of jewelers in
selling Swiss watches, and blurred the Swiss product image. Thus the
Swiss retaliation to Timex never really came.
     There are many other examples of this principle at work. Volks-
wagen's and American Motor's early strategies of producing a
stripped-down basic transportation vehicle with few style changes
created a similar dilemma for the Big Three auto producers. They
had a strategy built on trade-up and frequent model changes. Bic's
recent introduction of the disposable razor has put Gillette in a diffi-
cult position: if it reacts it may cut into the sales of another product
in its broad line of razors, a dilemma Bic does not face.4 Finally,
IBM has been reluctant to jump into minicomputers because the
move will jeopardize its sales of larger mainframe computers.
     Finding strategic moves that will benefit from a lag in retalia-
tion, or making moves so as to maximize the lag, are key principles
of competitive interaction. However, seeking to delay retaliation
cannot be made a principle of strategy without qualification. A slow
but tough retaliation may leave the initiating firm worse off than a
quick but less effective one. Thus to the extent that there is a trade-
off between the lag in retaliation and the effectiveness and toughness
of that retaliation, the firm will have to balance the two in selecting a
move.


     DEFENSIVE MOVES

     Thus far we have been talking about offensive moves, but the
need to deter or defend against moves by competitors can be equally
important. The problem of defense, of course, is the opposite of the
problem of offense. Good defense is creating a situation in which
competitors, after doing the analysis described above or actually at-
tempting a move, will conclude that the move is unwise. As with of-
fensive moves, defense can be achieved by forcing competitors to
back down after a battle. However, the most effective defense is to
prevent the battle altogether.
'For a description of Bic's move, see "Gillette: After the Diversification That
 Failed," Business Week, February 28, 1977.
Competitive Moves                                                         99

     T o prevent a move, it is necessary that competitors expect retali-
ation with a high degree of certainty and believe that the retaliation
will be effective. Some approaches to achieving this effect have been
discussed and others will be introduced as part of the generalized
concept of creating commitment, discussed below.
     Even if a move cannot be prevented, however, there are some
other approaches to defense,


      If a competitor makes a move and the firm immediately and
surely retailiates against it, this disciplining action can lead the ag-
gressor to expect that retaliation will always occur. The more the dis-
ciplining firm is able to aim its retaliation specifically at the initiator,
and the more it can communicate that its target is the initiator rather
than any other firm, the more effective such discipline is likely to be.
For example, a fighting brand which is a copy of a particular com-
petitor's product is more effective discipline than a more generalized
new product.' Conversely, if the retaliation must be generalized
(e.g., a price cut that applies to all customers and not just those
shared with the initiating price cutter), the more expensive and less
effective the discipline is likely to be. Also, when the response to a
move must be generalized rather than focused on the firm initiating
the battle, retaliation runs a greater risk of starting a chain reaction
of moves and countermoves-which makes discipline more risky.


     Once a competitor's move has occurred, the denial of an ade-
quate base for the competitor to meet its goals, coupled with the ex-
pectation that this state of affairs will continue, can cause the com-
petitor to withdraw. New entrants, for example, usually have some
targets for growth, market share, and ROI, and some time horizon
for achieving them. If a new entrant is denied its targets and be-
comes convinced that it will be a long time before they are met, then
it may withdraw or deescalate. Tactics for denying a base include
strong price competition, heavy expenditures on research, and so on.
Attacking new products in the test-market phase can be an effective
way to foretell a firm's future willingness to fight and can be less ex-
pensive than waiting for the introduction to actually occur. Another
'For examples of fighting brands, see Chapter 4.
100                                                     COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

tactic is using special deals to load customers up with inventory,
thereby removing the market for the product and raising the short-
run cost of entry. It can be worth paying a substantial short-run
price to deny a base if a firm's market position is threatened. Essen-
tial to such a strategy, however, is a good hypothesis about what a
competitor's performance targets and time horizon are.
      An example of such a situation may be Gillette's withdrawal
from digital watches. Although claiming it had won significant mar-
ket shares in test markets, Gillette bowed out, citing the substantial
investments required to develop technology and margins lower than
those available in other areas of its business. Texas Instruments'
strategy of aggressive pricing and rapid technological development
in digital watches probably had a substantial impact on this decision.



Commitment

      Perhaps the single most important concept in planning and exe-
cuting offensive or defensive competitive moves is the concept of
commitment. Commitment can guarantee the likelihood, speed, and
vigor of retaliation to offensive moves and can be the cornerstone of
defensive strategy. Commitments influence the way competitors per-
ceive their positions and those of rivals. Establishing commitment is
essentially a form of communicating the firm's resources and inten-
tions unequi~ocally.~    Competitors face uncertainty about a firm's
intentions and the extent of its resources. Communicating commit-
ment reduces the uncertainty and causes the players to calculate their
rational strategies from new assumptions, which avoids warfare. For
example, if a firm can commit itself unequivocally to vigorously re-
pulsing a given move, its competitors may take this reaction as a cer-
tainty rather than a probability in formulating their own strategies.
They are thus less likely to act in the first place. The trick in com-
petitive interactions is to stake out commitments in such a way as to
maximize the firm's own market position.
 61t should be stressed that the term communication is not used in the literal sense.
  Nevertheless, some modes of signaling and establishing commitments are under
  review by the U.S.antitrust authorities because of the concern that they may be ef-
  fective in leading to tacit collusion in industries. Although this interpretation 1s
  novel and unproven, managers must be aware of its existence.
Competitive Moves                                                     101

     There are three major types of commitment in the competitive
setting, each designed to achieve deterrence of a different type:
       commitment that the firm is unequivocally sticking with a
       move it is making;
       commitment that the firm will retaliate and continue to retali-
       ate if a competitor makes certain moves;
       commitment that the firm will take no action or forgo an ac-
       tion.
      If the firm can convince its rivals that it is commited to a strate-
gic move it is making or plans to make, it increases the chances that
rivals will resign themselves to the new position and not expend the
resources to retaliate or try to cause the firm to back down. Thus
commitment can deter retaliation. The more entrenched and stub-
born the firm appears in its intentions to carry out a move, the more
likely this outcome is. If competitors perceive a grim and committed
competitor, they may be convinced that if they retaliate the competi-
tor will countermove to keep its new position, and so on in a down-
ward spiral.
      The second form of commitment is analogous, but it relates to a
firm's reaction to possible initiatives by competitors. If the firm can
convince its rivals that it will retaliate strongly and with certainty to
their moves, they may conclude that it is not worth making the move
at all. This role of commitment is to deter threatening moves in the
first place. The more competitors perceive the prospect of dogged,
bitter retaliation to the point of severely hurting everyone's profits,
the less likely they are of initiating the chain of events in the first
place. This is analogous to the situation in which the robber says,
"stick 'em up, I want your money," and the deranged-looking vic-
tim says "If you take it, I will explode this bomb and kill us both!''
     The third form of commitment, that of not taking a damaging
action, might be termed creating trust. This form of commitment
can be important in deescalating competitive battles. For example, if
the firm can convince its rivals that it will follow a price increase
rather than attempt to undercut it, it may help stop a price war.
      The persuasiveness of a commitment is related to the degree to
which it appears binding and irreversible. The value of a commit-
ment is as a deterrent, and deterrent value increases with the certain-
ty with which the competitor sees the commitment being honored.
The irony is that if the deterrent fails, the firm may be sorry it has
102                                                     COMPETITIVE STRATEGY
made the commitment (the victim doesn't really want to blow him-
self up). The firm faces the difficult trade-off of reneging on its com-
mitment, reducing its credibility in subsequent situations, or paying
the price of fulfilling the commitment.
     Both the fact of a commitment and its timing are crucial. The
firm that can commit itselffirst may be in the position to make other
firms take its behavior as given in their maximizing calculations
about what to do, thereby skewing the outcome in its favor. This can
be especially effective when firms basically are seeking a stable out-
come but disagree on its precise form. When two firms are locked in
a vigorous battle for position and have widely divergent interests,
early commitment may be less helpful.'


      COMMUNICATING COMMITMENT

     Communicating commitment, either to pursue a move or to re-
taliate against a competitor's action, can be done through a variety
of mechanisms and with a variety of signaling devices. The building
blocks of a credible commitment are the following:
       assets, resources, and other mechanisms to carry out the com-
       mitment quickly;
       a clear intention to carry out the commitment, including a
       history of adherance to past commitments;
       inability to back down or perceived moral resolve not to back
       down;
       ability to detect compliance to the terms to which the commit-
       ment refers.
     The necessity of having the mechanisms to carry out a commit-
ment in order to communicate its seriousness is obvious. If a firm
appears unbeatable, a battle is unlikely to occur. Particularly visible
assets for carrying out commitments are excess cash reserves, excess
production c a p a ~ i t y ,a~ large corps of salespersons, extensive re-
search facilities, small positions in a competitor's other businesses
which can be used in retaliation, and fighting brands. Less visible as-
sets are such things as on-the-shelf but unintroduced new products
'For experimental evidence that supports this conclusion, see Deutsch (1960).
8Fora discussion of the related point that excess capacity can provide a deterrent to
 entry, see Spence (1977).
Competitive Moves                                                    103
which are set to go directly against a competitor's key market. Disci-
pline mechanisms is a term applied to such assets or resources, which
are intended to punish a competitor if it makes a move undesirable
from the point of view of the firm. Many of the assets listed above
can be effective discipline mechanisms.
     The building of such assets to carry out a commitment can play
an important role in establishing commitment. Mere possession of
the assets is not enough, however. Competitors must know about
their presence for them to have deterrent value. Insuring that com-
petitors are aware of the assets to carry out commitments sometimes
involves public announcements, discussions with customers that will
spread' around the industry, and cooperation with the business press
to the point of producing articles noting the existence of such assets.
Highly visible resources are particularly valuable as deterrents since
they minimize the risk of being misread or ignored by competitors.
     The clear intention to carry out a commitment must similarly be
communicated for a commitment to be credible. One way to do so is
through a pattern of consistent behavior. The past is usually used by
competitors as an indication of how reliable and tough a firm is like-
ly to be in its reactions, and a well-orchestrated series of past reac-
tion (which may be on less important or even trivial matters) can be a
persuasive signal of future intentions. The clear intention to carry
out a commitment is also enhanced by noticeable actions that reduce
the lag in retaliating, like defensive R&D programs already under-
way which are known to competitors. Announcements or leaks of
the intention to carry out a commitment are also communicating de-
vices, although they do not usually communicate with the serious-
ness of past behavior.
     Extremely effective in communicating commitment are known
factors that make it difficult and costly ifnot impossible for the firm
to back down. For example, a publicized long-term contract with a
supplier or customer is an indication of a long-run stake in trying to
enter and stay in a market. So is buying a plant rather than leasing it,
or entering a market as a fully integrated producer rather than just
an assembler. Commitment to retaliate to a competitor's moves can
be made irreversible by written or verbal agreements with retailers or
customers to meet price cuts, guarantees of an equivalent quality
product, cooperative advertising support to meet a competitor's ac-
tion, and so on. Declaring commitments to the industry or financial
community in public statements, publicizing targets for market
share, and a variety of other devices can let competitors know that a
104                                                 COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

firm will be embarrassed publicly if it has to back down. This knowl-
edge will tend to deter them from trying to force it to do so.
      Pursuing this line of thinking, the more the competitor thinks
the firm is bordering on being irrational in pursuing its commitment,
the more wary it will be in taking that firm on. Irrationality is com-
municated in competitive situations by such things as past actions,
lawsuits, and public statements. Behavior that tells competitors the
firm is serious can occur in all parts of a business. What is said to
suppliers, to customers, to distribution channels, and in public can
communicate more or less seriousness about being in the business or
about sticking to a commitment for the long haul.
     It is important to note that great resources are not always neces-
sary for commitment to be communicated. The firm with a large
market share or broad product line, for example, will usually have
conflicting goals in retaliating to some moves, as previously dis-
cussed. The small firm, however, may have much to gain and little to
lose by initiating a move or by retaliating to others' moves. A price
cut the firm initiates may have an enormous impact on the large
competitor, given that competitor's higher volume, for example. Al-
though the smaller firm has fewer resources to carry out its threats,
it can also partially compensate through toughness or irrationality.
     Finally, the ability of a firm to detect compliance is central to
the effectiveness of its commitment to retaliate. If a competitor be-
lieves it can "cheat" and go undetected, it may be tempted to do so.
But if the firm can.demonstrate its ability to know immediately of
any price shading, quality adjustments, or forthcoming new prod-
ucts, for example, its commitment to retaliate becomes more credi-
ble. Known systems of monitoring sales, talking to customers, and
for interviewing distributors are examples of ways to communicate a
high probability of detection. It should be noted that buyers may
have the incentive to report secret price cuts even if they do not ac-
tually occur in order to encourage discounting. This can undermine
the stability of a market where information is poor or suppliers can-
not verify buyer claims.
     An evolving competitive battle involving Baxter Travenol Lab-
oratories in intravenous solutions, blood containers, and related dis-
posable health care products is an interesting example of some of
these ideas about ~ o m m i t m e n t Baxter
                                      .~     ($800 million), in a strong
market position, faces a challenge from the McGaw division of
American Hospital Supply Corporation ($1.5 billion), developer of
9Fora description, see "A Miracle of Sorts," Forbes, November 15, 1977.
Competitive Moves                                                   105

a new container for intravenous solutions. Although the Food and
Drug Administration had not given its approval to the new compet-
itive product as of November 1977, Baxter reportedly had already
begun to take action to communicate its commitment to resist the en-
try. Hospital purchasing agents were reporting increased price com-
petition. Baxter was reported to be offering large discounts on many
lines and was going especially hard after McGaw accounts. Baxter
also had been spending heavily on research and had engaged in re-
portedly vicious price cutting when another competitor entered the
market in the early 1970s. Baxter's toughness and resolve in meeting
this recent competitive challenge has apparently been well communi-
cated.

     TRUST AS A COMMITMENT

      Our discussion has focused on communicating commitment to
stick with a move or to retaliate, but in some situations firms find it
desirable to make commitments to not make a damaging move or to
end aggression. Although this course may seem easy, competitors
are usually wary of a firm's conciliatory gesture, especially if they
have been stung by that firm in the past. They may also be wary if
letting down their guard gives the initiating firm a chance of getting
a jump on them that is hard to recoup. How, then, do firms actually
go about communicating conciliation or building trust?
      Once again the range of possibilities observed in practice is
large, and the principles already described in communicating com-
mitment apply. A persuasive way to communicate trustworthiness is
for the firm to demonstrably take some diminution in its perform-
ance that accrues to the benefit of competitors. For example, there is
substantial evidence that General Electric yielded market share in
cyclical downturns in the turbine generator business to avoid severe
price deterioration and took the share back in cyclical upturns.''


Focal Points

     A problem leading to instability in oligopoly is in coordinating
the expectations of competitors about what the eventual market out-
come will be. To the extent that competitors have divergent expecta-
"Sultan (1974), vol. 1.
108                                                COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

tions, jockeying will continue to occur and the prospect of outbreaks
of warfare is likely. Thomas Schelling's work on game theory'l sug-
gests that an important part of reaching an outcome in such a setting
is the discovery of a focal point, or some prominent resting place on
which the competitive process can converge its expectations. The
power of focal points resides in the need and desire of competitors to
mutually achieve some stable outcome to avoid difficult and unset-
tling moves and countermoves. Focal points can take the form of
logical price points, percentage markup pricing rules, round-number
divisions of market shares, informal sharings of the market on some
geographic or customer basis, and so on. The theory of focal points
is that competitive adjustments will finally settle on such a point,
which then serves as a natural sticking place.
      The concept of focal points raises three implications for com-
petitive rivalry. First, firms should seek to identify a desirable focal
point as early as possible. The faster the focal point can be reached,
the less the costs of jockeying around searching for it are likely to be.
Second, industry prices or other decision variables may be simplified
so that a focal point can be identified. This may involve, for exam-
ple, establishing standard grades or products to replace a complex
array of items in the line. Third, it is in the firm's interest to try to set
up the game to make the focal point that is best for it seem to
emerge. This may mean introducing a terminology in the industry
that leads to a desirable focal point, such as talking in terms of prices
per square foot rather than in terms of absolute prices. It can also
take the form of structuring the sequence of strategic moves in such
a way as to make a satisfactory focal point (from the firm's prospec-
tive) appear to emerge naturally.



A Note on Information and Secrecy

     In part because of the proliferation of the business press and in-
creased requirements for public filings, companies are disclosing
more and more about themselves. Although some of this is legally
required, much of what is written in annual reports, stated in inter-
views or speeches, or comes out via other means is not statutorily re-
quired. Disclosure may stem more from concern with the stock mar-
"Schelling (1960).
Competitive Moves                                                  107
 ket, managers' pride, inability to control statements by employees,
or simply from lack of attention.
      As should be clear from the discussion in this chapter, informa-
tion is crucial to both offensive and defensive competitive moves.
Sometimes selective release of information can serve very useful pur-
poses, in market signaling, communicating commitment, and the
like; but often information about plans or intentions can make it a
great deal easier for competitors to formulate strategy. For example.
if an impending new product is disclosed in detail, competitors will
be able to focus their resources in preparing a response. Contrast
this situation with the one in which disclosure of the new product's
nature is very vague; competitors are then obliged to prepare a range
of defensive strategies, depending on what shape the new product ac-
tually takes.
      Selective disclosure of information about itself is a crucial re-
source the firm has in making competitive moves. The disclosure of
any information should only be made as an integral part of compet-
itive strategy.
Strategy Toward Buyers
and Suppliers




This chapter develops some of the implications of structural analysis
for buyer selection, or the choice of target customers or customer
groups. It also explores some implications of structural analysis for
purchasing strategy. Policies toward both buyers and toward suppli-
ers are often looked at too narrowly, with the primary focus on oper-
ating problems. Yet through attention to broad issues of strategy
toward buyers and suppliers, the firm may be able to improve its
competitive position and reduce its vulnerability to their exercise of
power.



Buyer Selection

     Most industries sell their products or services not to a single
buyer but to a range of different buyers. The bargaining power of
this group of buyers, viewed in aggregate terms, is one of the key
competitive forces determining the potential profitability of an in-
108
Strategy Toward Buyers and Suppliers                                  109

dustry. Chapter 1 has examined some of the structural conditions
that make an industry's buyer group as a whole more or less powerful.
      Yet it is rare that the buyer group facing an industry is homoge-
neous from a structural standpoint. Many producer-goods indus-
tries, for example, sell products to firms in a wide variety of busi-
nesses that use the product in differing ways. These firms can differ
widely in their volumes of purchases, the importance of the product
as an input to their production processes, and so on. Buyers of con-
sumer goods can also vary a great deal in the quantity of a product
they purchase, in income, in education, and along many other di-
mensions.
      An industry's buyers can also differ in their purchasing needs.
Different buyers may require differing levels of customer service, de-
sired product quality or durability, needed information in sales pre-
sentations, and so on. These differing purchasing needs are one rea-
son why buyers have different structural bargaining power.
      Buyers differ not only in their structural position but also in
their growth potential, and hence in the probable growth of their
volume of purchases. Selling an electronic component to a firm like
Digital Equipment in the rapidly growing minicomputer industry of-
fers greater prospects for growth than selling the same component to
a black and white television manufacturer.
      Finally, for a variety of reasons the costs of servicing individual
buyers differ. In electronic component distribution, for example,
servicing buyers who order components in small quantities is a great
deal more costly (as a percentage of sales) than serving higher-vol-
ume purchasers because the costs of servicing an order are largely
fixed with respect to quantity shipped. The primary costs are paper-
work, processing, and handling, which are not greatly affected by
the number of components involved.
      As a result of this heterogeneity, buyer selection-the choice of
target buyers-becomes an important strategic variable. Broadly
speaking, the firm should sell to the most favorable buyers possible,
to the extent it has any choice. Buyer selection can strongly affect the
growth rate of the firm and can minimize the disruptive power of
buyers. Buyer selection with attention to structural considerations is
an especially important strategic variable in mature industries and in
those where barriers caused by product differentiation or technolog-
ical innovation are hard to sustain.
      Some concepts for buyer selection will be developed below. Af-
ter identifying the characteristics of favorable, or "good," buyers,
110                                            COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

some strategic implications of buyer selection will be discussed. One
such key implication is that a firm can not only find good buyers but
also can create them.


      A FRAMEWORK FOR BUYER SELECTION AND STRATEGY
     There are four broad criteria, drawn from the previous discus-
sion, that determine the quality of buyers from a strategic stand-
point:
       Purchasing needs versus company capabilities

       Growth potential
                              intrinsic bargaining power
                  position <propensity to exercise this bargaining
       Cost of servicing      power in demanding low prices
      Buyers' different purchasing needs carry strategic implications
if a firm has differing capabilities for serving these needs relative to
competitors. The firm will improve its competitive advantage, other
things being equal, if it targets its efforts toward buyers whose par-
ticular needs it is in the best relative position to serve. The signifi-
cance of the growth potential of buyers for strategy formulation is
self-evident. The higher the growth potential of a buyer, the more
probably its demands for the firm's product will be increasing over
time.
      Buyers' structural position is usefully divided into two parts for
purposes of strategic analysis. Intrinsic bargaining power is the lever-
age the buyers can potentially exert over sellers, given their clout and
the alternative sources of supply available. This leverage may or may
not be exercised, however, because buyers also differ in their pro-
pensity to exercise their bargaining power to force down a seller's
margins. Some buyers, even though they may purchase large quanti-
ties, are not particularly price sensitive. Or they are willing to trade
price against other product attributes in a way that preserves the
margins of the sellers. Both intrinsic bargaining power and the pro-
pensity to exercise it are crucial strategically, because unexercised
power is a threat that can be unleashed by industry evolution. Buyers
who have not been price sensitive can rapidly become so as their in-
dustries mature, for example, or as some substitute product begins
to put pressure on their own margins.
Strategy Toward Buyers and Suppliers                                 111

     The final key buyer characteristic from a strategic standpoint is
the costs to the firm of servicing particular buyers. If these costs are
high, then buyers that are "good buyers" based on other criteria
may lose their attraction, because the costs more than offset any
higher margins or lower risks in serving them.
     These four criteria do not necessarily all move in the same direc-
tion. The buyers with the greatest growth potential can also be the
most powerful and/or the most ruthless in exercising their power,
though not necessarily. Or the buyers with little bargaining power
and low price sensitivity may be so costly to service that the benefits
of higher realized prices may be outweighed. Finally, the buyers the
firm is best suited to serve may fail all the other tests. Thus the ulti-
mate choice of the best target buyers is often a weighing and balanc-
ing process among these factors, measured against the firm's goals.
     To assess where a particular buyer falls with respect to the four
criteria is a matter of applying the concepts of structural and com-
petitor analysis to their situations. Some of these factors will now be
discussed.


    PURCHASING NEEDS RELATIVE TO A FIRM'S CAPABILITIES

     The need to match buyers' particular purchasing needs with the
relative capabilities of the firm is self-evident. Such a match will al-
low the firm to achieve the highest level of product differentiation
vis-a-vis its buyers compared to competitors. It should also minimize
the cost of serving these buyers relative to competitors. For example,
if the firm has strong engineering and product development skills it
will achieve the greatest relative advantage in serving the buyers who
place greatest stress on custom varieties. Or if the firm enjoys an ef-
ficient logistical system relative to its competitors, this advantage
will be maximized by serving the buyers for whom cost is crucial or
for whom the logistics of reaching them are most complex.
     Diagnosing the purchasing needs of particular buyers is a mat-
ter of identifying all the factors that enter into each buyer's purchase
decision and the factors involved in executing the purchase transac-
tion (shipping, delivery, order processing). These can then be ranked
for individual buyers or buyer groups within the total buyer popula-
tion. Identifying the firm's own relative capabilities can draw on the
tools of competitor analysis presented in Chapter 3.
                                               COMPETITIVE STRATEGY


     BUYER'S GROWTH POTENTIAL

     The growth potential of a buyer in an industrial business is
determined by three straightforward conditions:
       the growth rate of its industry;
       the growth rate of its primary market segment(s);
       its change in market share in the industry and in key seg-
       ments.
The growth rate of the buyer's industry will depend on a variety of
factors, such as the position of the industry vis-a-vis substitute prod-
ucts, the growth of the buyer group to which it sells, and so on. The
broad factors determining long-run industry growth are described in
Chapter 8, "Industry Evolution."
      Some market segments within an industry will usually be grow-
ing faster than others. Thus the buyer's growth potential also de-
pends in part on what segments it is primarily serving or those it
could and will potentially serve. Assessing the growth potential of
particular segments requires basically the same analysis as assessing
the growth potential of the industry, although at a lower level of ag-
gregation.
      The market share of a buyer in its industry and in particular
market segments is the third element in growth analysis. Both the
buyer's current share and the likelihood that this share will move up
or down is a function of the buyer's competitive situation. Assessing
this state requires a competitor analysis as well as a diagnosis of
present and future industry structure, as is outlined in other chap-
ters.
      All three of these elements jointly determine the growth poten-
tial of the buyer. If a particular buyer is in a strong position to gain
share, for example, it may offer possibilities for substantial growth
even in a mature or declining industry.
      The growth potential of a household buyer is determined by an
analogous set of factors:
       demographics;
       quantity of purchases.
     The first factor, demographics, determines the future size of a
particular consumer segment. The number of well-educated consum-
Strategy Toward Buyers and Suppliers                                113

ers over twenty-five will be increasing rapidly, for example. Any
stratum of income, education, marital status, age, and so on can be
similarly analyzed by using demographic techniques.
     The quantity of the product or service the particular consumer
segment will purchase is the other key determinant of its growth
prospects. This will be determined by such factors as the existence of
substitutes, social trends which shift underlying needs, and so forth.
AS with demand for industrial goods, the underlying factors deter-
mining long-run demand for consumer goods will be discussed in
Chapter 8.


    INTRINSIC BARGAINING POWER OF BUYERS

     The factors 'that determine the intrinsic bargaining power of
particular buyers or buyer segments are similar to those described in
Chapter 1, which determine the power of the industry's buyer group
as a whole, although they will need to be extended somewhat. Here I
will present the criteria that identify buyers without much intrinsic
bargaining power, relative to others, because these will be good buy-
ers for purposes of buyer selection:
     They purchase small quantities relative to the sales of sellers.
Small-volume buyers will have less leverage to demand price conces-
sions, freight absorption, and other special considerations. The vol-
ume of              of a particular buyer will be most significant in
giving it bargaining leverage when the seller has high fixed costs.
     They lack qualified alternative sources. If the particular buyers'
needs are such that there are few alternative products that will meet
them satisfactorily, their bargaining leverage is limited. For exam-
ple, if the buyer needs an unusually high-precision part because of
the design of the final product, there may be few sellers that can sup-
ply it. A good buyer, using this criterion, is one who has a need for
features of the particular seller's product or service that are unique.
Qualified alternative sources can also be limited by needs for exten-
sive testing or field trials to insure seller compliance with needed
specifications, such as is common in telecommunications equipment.
     They face high shopping, transactions, or negotiating costs.
Buyers who face particular difficulties in securing alternative quotes,
negotiating, or conducting transactions generally have less intrinsic
Power. The cost to them of finding a new brand or new supplier is
114                                            COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

great, and they are forced to stick with their existing ones. For exarn-
ple, buyers located in isolated geographic areas may have such diffi-
culties.
      They lack a credible threat of backward integration. Buyers
who are in a poor position to backward integrate lose an important
bargaining lever. The buyers of a product usually differ greatly in
this ability. For example, of the numerous purchases of sulfuric
acid, only the large users, who are fertilizer manufacturers or oil
companies, are really in this position. The other buyers of sulfuric
acid have less bargaining leverage. The factors that determine the
feasibility of backward integration by a particular buyer are dis-
cussed in Chapter 14, "The Strategic Analysis of Vertical Integra-
tion."
      They face high fixed costs of switching suppliers. Some buyers
will face particularly high switching costs because of their situations.
For example, they may have tied the specifications of their product
to that of a particular supplier or made heavy investments in learn-
ing how to use a particular supplier's equipment.
     The major sources of switching costs are as follows:
       costs of modifying products to match a new supplier's prod-
       uct;
       costs of testing or certifying a new supplier's product to in-
       sure substitutability;
       investments in retraining employees;
       investments required in new ancillary equipment that is neces-
       sary to use a new supplier's products (tools, test equipment,
       etc.);
       cost of establishing new logistical arrangements;
       psychic costs of severing a relationship.
Any of these can be higher for particular buyers than for others.
     Switching costs may also afflict the seller, who may have to bear
fixed costs of changing buyers. Switching costs facing sellers yield
bargaining power to buyers.


      PRICE SENSITIVITY OF BUYERS

    Individual buyers can also differ greatly in their propensity to
exercise whatever bargaining power they have in bargaining down
Strategy Toward Buyers and Suppliers                                115

seller margins. Buyers who are not price sensitive at all, or who are
willing to trade price for performance characteristics of the product,
are usually good buyers. Once again the conditions determining the
price sensitivity of individual buyers are similar to those determining
the price sensitivity of the buyer group as a whole, presented in
Chapter 1, with a number of extensions.
     Buyers who are not sensitive to price tend to fall into one or
more of the following categories:
     The cost of the product is a small part of the cost of the buyer's
product cost and/or purchasing budget. If the product is a relatively
low-cost item, the perceived benefits of price shopping and bargain-
ing tend to be low. Note that the relevant cost is the total cost of the
product per period, not the unit cost. Unit costs may be low, but the
number of units purchased may make the item very important. The
efforts of the consumer or purchasing agent, whichever is applica-
ble, will tend to be directed toward the higher-cost items. For indus-
trial buyers, this often means that senior, specialist purchasing
agents and company executives buy high-cost items, and more jun-
ior, generalist purchasing agents handle all the low-cost items as a
group. For consumer buyers, a low-cost item does not justify the
high costs of shopping and product comparison. As a result, conve-
nience may be a major motive in purchase, and purchase will be
based on less "objective" criteria.
     The penalty for product failure is high relative to its cost. If a
product that fails or does not meet expectations causes the particular
buyer to pay a substantial penalty, then the buyer will tend not to be
price sensitive. The buyer will be much more concerned about qual-
ity, willing to pay a premium for it, and will tend to stick with prod-
ucts that have proven themselves in the past. A good example of this
product characteristic is found in the electrical products industry.
Here electrical controls sold to buyers for use in production ma-
chines may encounter lower price sensitivity than controls sold to
buyers using them for more mundane applications. Failure of the
controls for a piece of expensive production equipment can idle it as
well as a number of workers, if not an entire production line. Prod-
ucts sold to buyers who will use them in interrelated systems may
also imply particularly high failure costs, because failure of the
Product may bring the whole system down.
     Effectiveness of the product (or service) can yield major savings
or improvement in performance. Turning the previous condition
around, if the product or service can save the buyer time and money
116                                            COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

if it performs well or can improve the performance of the buyer's
 product, then the buyer will tend to be insensitive to price. For exam-
 ple, an investment banker's or consultant's services can produce ma-
 jor savings through accurate pricing of stock issues, valuation of ac-
quisition candidates or approaches to solving campany problems.
Buyers with particularly difficult pricing decisions, or with high
stakes in solving problems, will tend to be willing to pay a premium
for the very best advice. Another example is provided by the "log-
ging" of oil fields. Companies like Schlumberger use sophisticated
electronic techniques to detect the probable presence of oil in rock
formations. Accurate readings can yield major savings in drilling
costs, and oil drilling companies happily pay high fees for this serv-
ice, particularly the companies that face very difficult and costly
wells because of great depth or offshore location. Related to savings
like these are savings to the buyer from timely delivery, rapid prod-
uct servicing in the event of breakdowns, and many others. Some
buyers are willing to pay premiums to companies that can perform
well in areas such as these. Products that can yield the buyer im-
provements in performance include such things as prescription drugs
and electronic equipment.
      The buyer competes with a high-quality strategy to which the
purchased product is perceived to contribute. Those buyers compet-
ing with a high-quality strategy are often quite sensitive about the in-
puts they purchase. If they perceive that the input enhances the per-
formance of their product or if the brand of the input carries prestige
value which will reinforce their high-quality strategy, they will tend
to be insensitive to the price of inputs. For these reasons manufac-
turers of costly machinery often will pay a premium for electric mo-
tors or generators made by the prestige supplier.
      The buyer seeks a custom designed or differentiated variety. If
the buyer wants a specially designed product, then this desire is often
(though not always) accompanied by the willingness to pay a premi-
um price for it. This situation can lock the buyer into a particular
supplier or suppliers, and it may be willing to pay a premium to keep
those suppliers happy. Such buyers may also believe that such extra
effort deserves compensation. A good example of a company built
on such a strategy is Illinois Tool Works, who goes to elaborate
lengths to custom design its fasteners to specific customer's needs.
This policy has led to high margins and great customer loyalty.
      A buyer with high intrinsic bargaining power, however, may de-
mand unique or custom products but not be willing to pay extra for
Strategy Toward Buyers and Suppliers                               117

them. Serving these buyers puts the seller in the worst of situations,
because it elevates costs without elevating margins.
      The buyer is very profitable and/or can readily pass on the cost
of inputs. Highly profitable buyers tend to be less price sensitive
than those in marginal financial condition, unless the purchased
product is a major cost item. Some of this attitude may be based on
the fact that the highly profitable buyers fall into one of the catego-
ries listed above, and part may be attributable to a higher propensity
to assure the seller a fair return. Although it could be argued that
highly profitable buyers are that way because they are good bargain-
ers, in practice it seems that the priorities of such buyers are placed
less on aggressive bargaining over price and more in other areas.
      The buyer is poorly informed about the product and/or does
not purchase from well-defined specifications. Buyers who are poor-
ly informed about the cost of an input, demand conditions, or crite-
ria on which alternative brands should be evaluated tend to be less
price sensitive than very well-informed buyers. If buyers are very
well informed about the state of demand and suppliers' costs, on the
other hand, they can be ruthless price bargainers. This is the case
with many large purchasers of commodities. Poorly informed buy-
ers, however, tend to be swayed by subjective factors and to be less
certain about squeezing suppliers' margins. However, the buyer must
not be so poorly informed as to not recognize that competing prod-
ucts differ.
      The motivation of the actual decision maker is not narrowly de-
fined as the cost of inputs. The price sensitivity of the buyer depends
in part on the motivation of the actual purchaser or decision maker
in the buyer's organization, which can vary a great deal from buyer
to buyer. For example, purchasing agents are often rewarded for
cost savings, which makes them very narrowly price oriented, where-
as plant managers may have a longer-run outlook based on plant
productivity.' Depending on the size of the company and many other
factors, a purchasing agent, plant manager, or even senior executive
may be the actual decision maker. In consumer goods, different
members of the family may be the decision maker for different prod-
ucts. Different consumers can have different motivation systems.
The more the decision maker's motivation is not narrowly defined as
minimizing the cost of inputs, the less price sensitive the buyer is
likely to be.

'For a discussion of this point see Corey (1976).
118                                             COMPETITlVE STRATEGY

      The factors promoting price insensitivity can work jointly. For
example, most buyers of Letraset, a high-speed transfer process for
lettering artwork and drawings, are architects and commercial art-
ists. For them the cost of the lettering is small compared to the cost
of their time, and attractive lettering reflects strongly on the overall
impression left by design work they have done. Architects and artists
are most concerned with instant availability of a large selection of
different lettering styles. As a result, buyers of Letraset tend to be
extremely price insensitive and have allowed Letraset to earn very
high margins.
      The factors discussed above also mean that large buyers are not
necessarily the most price sensitive. For example, large buyers of
construction machinery use their equipment heavily and generally
purchase a wide line of machines, preferring to deal with one sup-
plier. A single supplier allows them to take advantage of parts inter-
changeability and interacting with a single service organization.
They are willing to pay a premium for a reliable line of machines, so
that they can be kept intensively utilized, and for products whose
service costs are low. Small contractors, on the other hand, only pur-
chase a few types of construction machinery and often use them less
intensively. They are much more sensitive about purchase:pricesince
the cost of equipment is a major cost item to them.


      COSTS OF SERVING BUYERS

    The costs of serving different buyers of a product can vary
greatly, usually for one of the following reasons:
       order size;
       selling direct versus through distributors;
       required lead time;
       steadiness of order flow for purposes of planning and logis-
       tics;
       shipping cost;
       selling cost;
       need for customization or modification;
Many of the costs of serving buyers can be hidden, and some are
quite subtle. They can be obscured by overhead allocation. Usually
to ascertain the cost of serving different types of buyers a firm must
do a special study, because data in sufficient detail are rarely a part
of normal operating statements.
Strategy Toward Buyers and Suppliers                                   119


     BUYER SELECTION AND STRATEGY

      The notion that buyers differ along the four dimensions previ-
ously discussed means that the choice of buyers can be a critical stra-
tegic variable. Not all firms have the luxury of selecting their buyers,
and not all industries have buyers that differ significantly along
these dimensions. In many cases, however, the option of buyer selec-
tion is present.
      The basic strategic principle in buyer selection is to seek out and
attempt to sell to the most favorable buyers available based on the
criteria outlined above. As was noted earlier, the four criteria may
yield conflicting implications for the attractiveness of a particular
buyer. The buyer with the most growth potential may also have the
most power and be the most price sensitive, for example. Thus the
choice of the best buyer must balance all four criteria against the
capabilities of the firm relative to its competitors.
      Different firms will be in differing positions to select buyers. A
firm with high product differentiation may be able to sell to good
buyers that are unavailable to many of its competitors, for example.
The intrinsic power of buyers may also vary for different firms. A
very large firm or one with unique product variety may be less af-
fected by the size of the buyer than a smaller firm, to cite just one
possibility. Finally, firms have differing capabilities with respect to
serving particular buyers' needs. Thus the most favorable buyers to
sell to will depend on the position of the individual firm in some
respects.
     There are a number of other strategic implications of buyer se-
lection:
      The firm with a low-cost position can sell to powerful, price-
sensitive buyers and still be successful. If a firm is the low-cost pro-
ducer, no matter how powerful or price sensitive the buyer the firm
will be able to earn above-average margins for its industry, because
the seller can meet the prices of its competitors and still earn better
returns than they do. But there is an element of circularity in this
statement in some businesses. The seller may sometimes have to sell
to "lousy" buyers if it is to achieve a cost advantage because it needs
the volume.
     The firm without a cost advantage or differentiation must be se-
lective about its buyers if it desires an above-average return. Without
a cost advantage, the firm must focus its efforts on buyers vrho are
less price sensitive if it is to outperform the industry average. This re-
120                                                COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

quirement may mean that such a firm must deliberately give up sales
volume in order to maintain such a focus. Without a cost advantage,
building volume for its own sake is self-defeating because it exposes
the firm to less and less favorable buyers. This principle reinforces
the notion of generic strategies described in Chapter 2. If the firm
cannot achieve cost leadership, it must be careful not to become
stuck in the middle by selling to powerful buyers.
      Good buyers can be created (or the quality of buyers improved)
through strategy. Some of the characteristics of buyers that make
them favorable can be influenced by the firm. For example, one im-
portant strategy is to build up switching costs-by persuading the
customer to design the firm's product into his product, by develop-
ing custom varieties, by assistance in training of customer personnel
to use the firm's product, and so on. Furthermore, clever selling can
shift the decision maker for the product from an individual who is
price sensitive to one who is less price sensitive. The product or serv-
ice can be improved to yield potential savings to particular types of
buyers; and many other actions can be taken to improve the quality
of the buyer from the firm's point of view, by affecting the charac-
teristics of good buyers previously identified.
      This analysis suggests that one way in which the formulation of
strategy can be viewed is to create favorable buyers. It is obviously
better, as a matter of strategy, to create good buyers that are locked
into the particular firm rather than to create ones that will be good
buyers for any competitor.
      The basis of buyers' choice can be broadened. An approach to
creating good buyers which is so important as to warrant separate
discussion is broadening the basis of buyers' choice. Ideally, the
basis can be shifted away from purchase price and in directions
where the firm has some distinctive abilities or where switching costs
can be created.
     There are two fundamental ways to broaden buyers' choice.
The first is to increase the value added the firm provides to the
buyer,' which involves such tactics as
       providing responsive customer service;
       providing engineering assistance;
       providing credit or rapid delivery;
       creating new features of the product.
'Theodore Levitt would term this selling the buyer an "augmented" product; see
 Levitt (1969).
Strategy Toward Buyers and Suppliers                                        121

The notion here is simple. Increasing value added broadens the attri-
butes on which choice is potentially based. It may allow the transfor-
mation of a product which is a commodity itself to one that can be
differentiated.
      A distinct but related way to broaden the basis of buyers' choice
is to redefine the way the buyer thinks about the product's function,
even if the product and service offering itself is the same. Here the
buyer is shown that the cost or value of the product to him is not
only the initial purchase price but involves such additional factors

        resale value;
        maintenance cost and downtime over the product's life;
        fuel cost;
        revenue generating capacity;
        cost of installation or attachment.
If the buyer can be convinced that such factors as these enter into the
actual total cost or value of the product, then the firm has the poten-
tial opportunity of demonstrating that its product has superior per-
formance along these dimensions and thereby justifies a price premi-
um and buyer loyalty. Of course, the firm must be able to deliver on
its promises of superiority, and its claims must be to some extent dis-
tinctive vis-a-vis its competitors or the potential higher margins will
soon be eroded. Widening the basis of buyers' choice requires a com-
bination of effective marketing on this basis and product develop-
ment that supports the story convincingly. General Electric has prac-
ticed this strategy very successfully for decades in the large turbine
generator industry.
     High-cost buyers can be eliminated. A commonly used strategy
to boost return on investment is to eliminate the high-cost buyers
from the customer base. This tactic can often be quite effective since
there is a common tendency to proliferate marginal customers, par-
ticularly in the growth phase of an industry's development. Elimi-
nating high cost buyers is also often fruitful since the costs of serving
individual buyers are rarely studied. However, it is crucial to recog-
nize that there are other aspects to the desirability of buyers than
merely their costs of servicing. High-cost buyers can be very price in-
sensitive, for example, and amenable to price increases that more

'This notion has been carefully developed by McKinsey and Company in the notion
 of the "economic value to the customer." See Forbus and Mehta (1979).
122                                            COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

than cover the cost of serving them once the true cost of serving them
 has been ascertained. Or high-cost buyers may offer significant con-
tributions to a firm's growth which can be essential in reaping
economies of scale or necessary for other strategic purposes. Thus a
decision to eliminate high-cost customers should involve a study of
all four elements of buyer attractiveness.
      The quality of buyers can change over time. Many of the factors
determining a buyer's quality can change. As an industry matures,
for example, buyers tend to become more price sensitive in many
businesses because their own margins are squeezed and they are
more expert purchasers. From a strategic standpoint, then, it is im-
portant not to base a strategy on selling to buyers whose quality will
erode. Conversely, early recognition of a buyer group that is likely
to become particularly favorable represents a major strategic oppor-
tunity. Penetrating such buyers early may be easy if they have low
switching costs and few other competitors are interested. Once in the
door, switching costs can be elevated through strategy.
      Switching costs should be considered in making strategic moves.
In view of the potential importance of switching costs, the impact of
all strategic moves on switching costs should be considered. For ex-
ample, the presence of switching costs means that it is often much
cheaper for a customer to upgrade or augment an already purchased
product then replace it altogether with another brand. This consider-
ation may allow the firm with units already in place to earn very high
margins on upgrading, as long as upgrading is priced properly in re-
lation to the cost of competitors' new units.



Purchasing Strategy

     The analysis of suppliers' power in Chapter 1 coupled with a re-
verse application of the principles of buyer selection can help a firm
in formulating purchasing strategy. Although there are many aspects
of purchasing strategy, procedures, and organization that go well
beyond the scope of this book, some issues can be usefully examined
by using the industry structure framework. Key issues in purchasing
strategy from a structural standpoint are as follows:
       stability and competitiveness of the supplier pool;
       optimal degree of vertical integration;
Strategy Toward Buyers and Suppliers                                123

       allocation of purchases among qualified suppliers;
       creation of maximum leverage with chosen suppliers.
      The first issue is the stability and competitiveness of suppliers.
From a strategic point of view, it is desirable to purchase from sup-
pliers who will maintain or improve their competitive position in
terms of their products and services. This factor insures that the firm
will purchase inputs of adequate or superior quality/cost to insure
its own competitiveness. Similarly, selecting suppliers who will con-
tinue to be able to meet the firm's needs will minimize the costs of
changing suppliers. Structural and competitor analysis, discussed
throughout this book, can be used to identify how a firm's suppliers
will fare along these dimensions.
     The second issue, vertical integration, will be postponed until
Chapter 14, which examines the strategic considerations in decisions
to integrate vertically. Here I assume that the firm has decided what
items to purchase outside, and the question is how to purchase them
so as to create the best structural bargaining position.
      In allocating purchases among suppliers and creating bargain-
ing power, the third and fourth issues, we can turn to structural anal-
ysis. In Chapter 1, the following conditions were identified as lead-
ing to powerful suppliers of a particular input:
       concentration of suppliers;
       lack of dependence on the customer for a substantial fraction
       of sales;
       switching costs facing the customer;
       a unique or differentiated product (few alternative sources);
       threat of forward integration.
The analysis of buyer selection earlier in this chapter added a num-
ber of other conditions in which the supplier will hold the power vis-
a-vis the buyer:
       buyer lacks a credible threat of backward integration;
       buyer faces high information, shopping, or negotiating costs.
      In purchasing, then, the goal is to find mechanisms to offset or
surmount these sources of suppliers' power. In some cases this
power is built into industry economics and is out of the firm's con-
trol. In many cases, however, it can be mitigated by strategy.

     Spread Purchases. Purchases of an item can be spread among
alternate suppliers in such a way as to improve the firm's bargaining
124                                           COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

position. The business given to each individual supplier must be
large enough to cause the supplier concern over losing it-spreading
purchases too widely does not take advantage of structural bargain-
ing position. However, purchasing everything from one supplier
may yield that supplier too much of an opportunity to exercise
power or build switching costs. Cutting across these considerations
is the purchaser's ability to negotiate volume discounts, which is
partly a matter of bargaining power and partly a matter of supplier
economics. Balancing these factors, the purchaser should seek to
create as much supplier dependence on its business as possible and
reap the maximum volume discounts without exposing itself to too
great a risk of falling prey to switching costs.

     Avoid Switching Costs. Good purchasing strategy, from a
structural standpoint, involves the avoidance of switching costs. The
common sources of switching costs have been identified earlier, and
other subtle areas exist as well. Avoiding switching costs means
resisting the temptation to become too dependent on a supplier for
engineering assistance; insuring that employees are not coopted;
avoiding suppliers' efforts to create a custom-variety or custom-en-
gineered application without a clear cost justification that outweighs
possible future exercise of leverage; and so on. This policy may in-
volve deliberately requiring that an alternate supplier's product is
used some of the time, disapproving investments in ancillary equip-
ment that are tied to a particular supplier, and resisting supplier
products that involve specialized training procedures for employees,
among other things.

     Help Qualify Alternate Sources. It may be necessary to en-
courage alternate sources to enter the business, through funding de-
velopment contracts and contracts for a small part of purchases.
Some purchasers have actually helped capitalize new sources or gone
overseas to persuade foreign firms to come into the business. It may
also be desirable to help new suppliers minimize their costs of be-
coming qualified sources. Mechanisms range from extreme atten-
tiveness to finding new suppliers by the purchasing staff to subsidiz-
ing the cost of testing new suppliers' products.

     Promote Standardization. All firms in an industry may be
well served by promoting standardization of specifications in the in-
dustries from which they purchase inputs. This policy helps reduce
Strategy Toward Buyers and Suppliers                              125

suppliers' product differentiation and undercuts the erection of
switching costs.

     Create a Threat of Backward Integration. Whether or not the
purchaser actually desires to backward integrate into, an item, its
bargaining position is helped by the presence of a credible threat.
This threat can be created through statements, leaked word of inter-
nal studies of the feasibility of integration, creation of contingency
plans for integration with consultants or engineering firms, and
SO on.


     Use of Tapered Integration. When the volume of purchases
allow it, a great deal of bargaining leverage can be gained through
tapered integration, or partial integration into a particular item
while buying some or even the majority of it from outside suppliers.
This process was briefly discussed in Chapter 1 and will be examined
further in Chapter 14.

     The objective of all these approaches is obviously to lower the
total long-run costs of purchasing. It should be recognized that using
some of them may actually raise some aspects of narrowly defined
purchasing cost. For example, maintaining alternative sources or
fighting against switching costs can involve expenses that could be
avoided in the short run. However, the ultimate purpose of such ex-
penses is to improve the bargaining position of the firm and hence its
long-run input costs.
     A number of points emerge. First, it is important to avoid the
situation in which too narrow a short-run cost-cutting orientation
undermines potentially valuable purchasing strategies like those out-
lined above. Second, any additional costs created by such a purchas-
ing strategy must be weighed against its long-run benefits in mitigat-
ing suppliers' bargaining power. Finally, since the cost of purchasing
from different suppliers can vary, the firm should purchase from
low-cost suppliers unless there are offsetting benefits in terms of
long-run bargaining power.
Structural Analysis
Within Industries




The structural analysis of an industry in Chapter 1 is based on the
identification of the sources and strength of the five broad competi-
tive forces that determine the nature of competition in the industry
and its underlying profit potential. The focus of the analysis so far
has been on the industry as a whole, and at this level the analysis
raises numerous implications for competitive strategy. Some of these
have been described in previous chapters. It is clear, however, that
industry structural analysis can be used at greater depth than the in-
dustry as a whole. In many if not most industries, there are firms
that have adopted very different competitive strategies, along such
dimensions as breadth of product line, degree of vertical integration,
and so on, and have achieved differing levels of market share. Also,
some firms persistently outperform others in terms of rate of return
on invested capital. IBM's return has consistently exceeded that of
other mainframe computer manufacturers,' for example. General
'IBM's average rate of return on equity capital for the years 1970-75 was 19.4
 percent, despite a large pool of unused cash, compared to 13.7 percent for Bur-
 roughs, 9.3 percent for Honeywell, and 4.7 percent for Control Data. See the Janu-
 ary issue of Forbes annually for this and other profitability comparisons.
structural Analysis Within Industries                                127

Motors has persistently outperformed Ford, Chrysler, and AMC. In
other industries, smaller firms such as Crown Cork and Seal and Na-
tional Can in the metal can industry, and Estee Lauder in cosmetics
outperform larger ones.
     The five broad competitive forces provide a context in which all
firms in an industry compete. But we must explain why some firms
are persistently more profitable than others and how this relates to
their strategic postures. We must also understand how firms' differ-
ing competencies in marketing, cost cutting, management, organiza-
tion, and so on relate to their strategic postures and to their ultimate
performance.
     This chapter will extend the concepts of structural analysis to
explain differences in the performance of firms in the same industry,
at the same time providing a framework for guiding the choice of
competitive strategy. It will also build on and amplify the notion of
generic strategies described in Chapter 2 . Structural analysis within
industries, as well as applied to industries as a whole, will prove to be
a useful analytical tool in strategy formulation.


Dimensions of Competitive Strategy

    Companies' strategies for competing in an industry can differ in
a wide variety of ways. However, the following strategic dimensions
usually capture the possible differences among a company's strategic
options in a given industry:
       specialization: the degree to which it focuses its efforts in
       terms of the width of its line, the target customer segments,
       and the geographic markets served;
       brand identification: the degree to which it seeks brand iden-
       tification rather than competition based mainly on price or
       other variables. Brand identification can be achieved via ad-
       vertising, sales force, or a variety of other means;
       push versuspull: the degree to which it seeks to develop brand
       identification with the ultimate consumer directly versus the
       support of distribution channels in selling its product;
       channel selection: the choice of distribution channels ranging
       from company-owned channels to specialty outlets to broad-
       line outlets;
                                        COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

 product quality: its level of product quality, in terms of raw
 materials, specifications, adherence to tolerances, features,
 and so on;
 technological leadership: the degree to which it seeks techno-
logical leadership versus following or imitation. It is impor-
 tant to note that a firm could be a technological leader but
 deliberately not produce the highest quality product in the
 market; quality and technological leadership do not necessar-
ily go together;
 vertical integration: the extent of value added as reflected in
 the level of forward and backward integration adopted, in-
cluding whether the firm has captive distribution, exclusive or
owned retail outlets, an in-house service network, and so on;
cost position: the extent to which it seeks the low-cost posi-
tion in manufacturing and distribution through investment in
cost-minimizing facilities and equipment;
service: the degree to which it provides ancillary services with
its product line, such as engineering assistance, an in-house
service network, credit, and so forth. This aspect of strategy
could be viewed as part of vertical integration but is usefully
separated for analytical purposes;
pricepolicy: its relative price position in the market. Price po-
sition will usually be related to such other variables as cost
position and product quality, but price is a distinct strategic
variable that must be treated separately;
leverage: the amount of financial leverage and operating lev-
erage it bears;
relationship with parent company: requirements on the be-
havior of the unit based on the relationship between a unit
and its parent company. The firm could be a unit of a highly
diversified conglomerate, one of a vertical chain of busi-
nesses, part of a cluster of related businesses in a general sec-
tor, a subsidiary of a foreign company, and so on. The nature
of the relationship with the parent will influence the objec-
tives with which the firm is managed, the resources available
to it, and perhaps determine some operations or functions that
it shares with other units (with resulting cost implications), as
has been discussed in Chapter 1;
relationship to home and host government: in international
industries, the relationship the firm has developed or is sub-
Structural Analysis Within Industries                                129

        ject to with its home government as well as host governments
        in foreign countries where it is operating. Home governments
        can provide resources or other assistance to the firm, or con-
        versely can regulate the firm or otherwise influence its goals.
        Host governments often play similar roles.
      Each of these strategic dimensions can be described for a firm at
differing levels of detail, and other dimensions might be added to re-
fine the analysis; the important thing is that these dimensions pro-
vide an overall picture of the firm's position.
      The scope for strategic differences along a particular dimension
clearly depends on the industry. For example, in a commodity busi-
ness like ammonium fertilizer, no firm has much brand identifica-
tion and product quality is essentially uniform. Yet firms differ
widely in backward integration, the degree to which they provide
service, integration forward into dealerships, relative cost positions,
and relationships to their parents.
     The strategic dimensions are related. A firm with a low relative
price (such as Texas Instruments in semiconductors) usually has a
low-cost position and good though not superior product quality. To
achieve its low costs such a firm probably has a high degree of verti-
cal integration. The strategic dimensions for a particular firm usu-
ally form an internally consistent set, as in this example. An industry
normally has firms with a number of different though internally
consistent combinations of dimensions.


Strategic Groups

      The first step in structural analysis within industries is to char-
acterize the strategies of all significant competitors along these di-
mensions. This activity then allows for the mapping of the industry
into strategic groups. A strategic group is the group of firms in an in-
dustry following the same or a similar strategy along the strategic di-
mensions. An industry could have only one strategic group if all the
firms followed essentially the same strategy. At the other extreme,
each firm could be a different strategic group. Usually, however,
there are a small number of strategic groups which capture the essen-
tial strategic differences among firms in the industry. For example,
in the major appliance industry one strategic group (with GE as the
130                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

 prototype) is characterized by broad product lines, heavy national
 advertising, extensive integration, and captive distribution and serv-
 ice. Another group consists of specialist producers like Maytag fo-
 cusing on the high-quality, high-price segment with selective distri-
 bution. Another group (like Roper and Design and Manufacturing)
 produces unadvertised products for private label. One or two addi-
 tional groups might be identified as well.
      Note that for purposes of defining strategic groups, the strategic
 dimensions must include the firm's relationship to its parent. In an
 industry like ammonium fertilizer, for example, some firms are divi-
sions of oil companies, some are divisions of chemical companies,
some are parts of farmers' cooperatives, and the rest are indepen-
 dents. Each of these different types of firms is managed with some-
 what differing objectives. Often relationships to the parent also
 translate into differences in the other dimensions of strategy-for
example, all the divisions of oil companies in nitrogen fertilizer have
quite similar strategies-because the relationship has a lot to do with
 the resources and other strengths available to the firm and the phi-
losophy with which it is operated. The same sorts of arguments ap-
 ply to the differing relationships firms may have with their home
and/or host goverments, which also must be part of defining strate-
gic groups.
      Strategic groups often differ in their product or marketing ap-
proach, but not always. Sometimes, as in corn milling and the manu-
facture of chemicals or sugar, groups' products are identical but
manufacturing, logistics, and vertical integration approaches differ.
Or firms might be following strategies but have differing relation-
ships to parent companies or host governments that affect their ob-
jectives. Strategic groups are not equivalent to market segments or
segmentation strategies but are defined on the basis of a broader
conception of strategic posture.
      Strategic groups are present for a wide variety of reasons, such
as firms' differing initial strengths and weaknesses, differing times
of entry into the business, and historical accidents. (I will have more
to say on this subject later in this chapter.) However, once groups
have formed, the firms in the same strategic group generally resem-
ble one another closely in many ways besides their broad strategies.
They tend to have similar market shares and also to be affected by
and respond similarly to external events or competitive moves in the
industry because of their similar strategies. This latter characteristic
is important in using a strategic group map as an analytical tool.
Structural Analysis Within Industries                                              131

     The strategic groups in an industry can be displayed on a map
like the hypothetical one shown in Figure 7-1. The number of axes
are obviously limited by the two-dimensional character of a printed
page, which means that the analyst must select a few particularly im-
portant strategic dimensions along which to construct a map.2 It is




                           Group A
                        Full line, ver-
     Full             tically integrated,
     Line          low manufacturing cost,
                         low service,
                      moderate quality



                                                  Group C
                                               Moderate line,
                                             assembler, medium
                                               price, very high
                                              customer service,
                                              low quality, low
                                                     price



                                                                    Narrow line,
                                                                     assembler,
                                                                     high price,




                         Group D
   Narrow               Narrow line,
                     highly automated,
    Line
                       low price, low
                           service




                    High Vertical                                   Assembler
                     Integration

                                      Vertical Integration
FIGURE 7.1.     A Map of Strategic Groups in a Hypothetical Industry
The concepts discussed below will aid in the process of doing so.
132                                               COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

useful to represent the collective market share of the firms in each
strategic group with the size of symbols for subsequent analysis.
     The strategic group is an analytical device designed to aid in
structural analysis. It is an intermediate frame of reference between
looking at the industry as a whole and considering each firm sepa-
rately. Ultimately every firm is unique, and thus classifying firms
into strategic groups inevitably raises questions of judgment about
what degree of strategic difference is important. These judgments
must necessarily relate to structural analysis: a difference in strategy
among firms is important enough to recognize in defining strategic
groups if it significantly affects the structural position of the firms. I
will return later to these practical considerations of mapping strate-
gic groups and using the map as an analytical tool.
     In the rare case of only one strategic group existing in an indus-
try, the industry can be analyzed fully by using the techniques of
structural analysis presented in Chapter 1. In this case the industry's
structure will yield the same potential level of sustainable profitabil-
ity to all firms. The actual profitability of particular firms in the in-
dustry should differ in the long run only insofar as they differ in
their ability to implement the common strategy. If there are several
strategic groups in an industry, however, the analysis is more com-
plicated. The profit potential of firms in different strategic groups is
often different, quite apart from their implementation abilities, be-
cause the five broad competitive forces will not have equal impact on
dgferent strategic groups.


      STRATEGIC GROUPS AND MOBILITY BARRIERS

      Entry barriers have been viewed so far as industry characteris-
tics that deter new firms from coming into the industry. The major
sources of entry barriers that have been identified are economies of
scale, product differentiation, switching costs, cost advantages, ac-
cess to distribution channels, capital requirements, and government
policy. Yet although some of the sources of entry barriers will pro-
tect all firms in the industry, it is clear that overall entry barriers de-
pend on the particular strategic group that the entrant seeks to join.
Entering the appliance industry as a nationally branded, broad-line,
vertically integrated firm will be a great deal more difficult than en-
tering as an assembler of a narrow line of unbranded goods for small
Structural Analysis Within Industries                                 133

private label accounts. Differences in strategy may imply differences
in product differentiation, differences in the achievement of econo-
mies of scale, differences in capital requirements, and potential dif-
ferences in all the other sources of entry barriers. If barriers caused
by production economies of scale exist, for example, they will be
most significant in protecting the strategic group consisting of firms
with large plants and extensive vertical integration. Economies of
scale in distribution, if they exist in the industry, will create barriers
to entry into strategic groups with captive distribution organiza-
tions. Cost advantages from accumulated experience, if they are im-
portant in the industry, create barriers protecting the groups consist-
ing of experienced firms (although not inexperienced ones). And so
on for each other source of entry barriers.
      Differences in firms' relations to their parents may affect entry
barriers as well. The strategic group including those firms that have
a vertical relationship to their parents, for example, may enjoy supe-
rior access to raw materials or larger financial resources with which
to retaliate against potential entrants than a strategic group consist-
ing of independent competitors. Or firms who share distribution
channels with another division of their parent company may reap
economies of scale that their competitors cannot match, thereby de-
terring entry.
      This view that entry barriers depend on the target strategic
group carries another important implication. Entry barriers not only
protect firms in a strategic group from entry by firms outside the in-
dustry but also provide barriers to shifting strategic position from
one strategic group to another. For example, the narrow-line, un-
branded appliance assembler described earlier will face many if not
most of the same difficulties in entering the strategic group consist-
ing of the broad-line, nationally branded, integrated firms as would
an entirely new entrant. Factors creating entry barriers that result
from competing with a particular strategy-because they affect
economies of scale, product differentiation, switching costs, capital
 requirements, absolute cost advantages, or access to distribution-
elevate the cost to other firms of adopting that strategy. This cost of
adopting the new strategy can eliminate the expected gains from the
change.
      The same underlying economic factors leading to entry barriers
 can thus be framed more generally as mobility barriers, or factors
 that deter the movement of firms from one strategic position to an-
134                                                    COMPETITIVESTRATEGY

other. The movement of a firm from a position outside the industry
 to a strategic group in the industry (entry) becomes one of a contin-
 uum of possibilities, using this broader concept of barriers.
      Mobility barriers provide the first major reason why some firms
in an industry will be persistently more profitable than others. Dif-
ferent strategic groups carry with them different levels of mobility
barriers, which provide some firms with persistent advantages over
others. The firms in strategic groups with high mobility barriers will
have greater profit potential than those in groups with lower mobil-
ity barriers. These barriers also provide a rationale for why firms
continue to compete with different strategies despite the fact that all
strategies are not equally successful. One asks oneself why successful
strategies are not quickly imitated. Without mobility barriers, firms
with successful strategies would be quickly imitated by others, and
firms' profitability would tend toward equality except for differ-
ences in their abilities to execute the best strategy in an operational
sense. Without deterrents, for example, computer manufacturers
like Control Data and Honeywell would jump at the chance to adopt
IBM's strategy, with its lower costs and superior service and distri-
bution network. The existence of mobility barriers means that some
firms like IBM can enjoy systematic advantages over others, through
economies of scale, absolute cost advantages, and so on, which can
be overcome only by strategic breakthroughs that lead to structural
change in the industry, and not merely through better execution. Fi-
nally, the presence of mobility barriers means that market shares of
firms in some strategic groups in an industry can be very stable, and
yet there can be rapid entry and exit (or turnover) in other strategic
groups in the industry.
      Just like entry barriers, mobility barriers can change; and as
they do (such as if the manufacturing process becomes more capital
intensive) firms often abandon some strategic groups and jump into
new ones, changing the pattern of strategic groups. Mobility barriers
can also be influenced by firm choices of strategy. A company in an
undifferentiated product industry, for example, can attempt to cre-
ate a new strategic group (with higher mobility barriers) by investing
heavily in advertising to develop brand identification (like Perdue is
doing in fresh chicken). Or it can try to introduce a new manufactur-
ing process with greater economies of scale (Castle & Cooke and
Ralston Purina in mushroom farming).' Investments in building mo-
5 e e "Mushrooming Business," Forbes, July 15, 1977.
Structural Analysis Within Industries                                 135
bility barriers are generally risky, however, and to some extent trade
short-term profitability for long-term profitability.
      Some firms will face lower costs than others in overcoming par-
ticular mobility barriers depending on their existing strategic posi-
tions and their inventory of skills and resources. Diversified firms
can also enjoy reductions in mobility barriers because of opportuni-
ties for sharing operations or functions. The implications of these
factors for decisions to enter new businesses will be discussed in
Chapter 16.
      After mapping the strategic groups in an industry, the second
step in structural analysis within an industry is to assess the height
and composition of the mobility barriers protecting each group.



     MOBILITY BARRIERS AND GROUP FORMATION


     Strategic groups form and change in an industry for a variety of
reasons. First, firms often begin with or later develop differences in
skills or resources, and thus select different strategies. The well-situ-
ated firms outdistance others in the race toward the strategic groups
protected by high mobility barriers as the industry develops. Secondi
firms differ in their goals or risk posture. Some firms may be more
prone to making risky investments in building mobility barriers than
others. Business units that differ in their relationship to a parent
company (e.g., being vertically related, unrelated, or a free-standing
firm) may differ in goals in ways that will lead to differences in strat-
egy, as may international competitors with different situations in
their other markets than domestic firms.
     The historical development of an industry provides another ex-
planation for why firms differ in their strategies. In some industries,
being an early entrant provides access to strategies more costly to
later entrants. Mobility barriers from scale economies, product dif-
ferentiation, and other causes may also change, either as a result of
firm's investments or exogenous causes. Changing mobility barriers
mean that early entrants into the industry may pursue very different
strategies than later entrants, some of which may not be available to
later entrants. The irreversibility of many forms of investment deci-
sions sometimes precludes early entrants from adopting the strate-
gies of the later entrants who have the advantages of hindsight.
                                                      COMPETITIVESTRATEGY

     A related point is that the process of historical evolution of an
industry tends to lead to the self-selection of different types of en-
trants at different times. For example, later entrants into an industry
may tend to be firms with increased financial resources who can af-
ford to wait until some of the uncertainties in the industry are re-
solved. Firms with few resources, on the other hand, could have
been compelled to enter early when capital costs of entry were low.
     Changes in the structure of the industry can either facilitate the
formation of new strategic groups or work to homogenize groups.
For example, as an industry increases in total size, strategies involv-
ing vertical integration, captive distribution channels, and in-house
servicing may become increasingly feasible for the aggressive firm,
promoting the formation of new strategic groups. Similarly, techno-
logical changes or changes in buyers' behavior can shift industry
boundaries, bringing entirely new strategic groups into play.4 Con-
versely, maturity in an industry, which lessens the buyer's desire for
service capability or for the reassurance embodied in the manufac-
turer having a full product line, can work to reduce the mobility bar-
riers that accrue to some strategic dimensions, leading to a reduction
in the number of strategic groups. As a consequence of all these fac-
tors, we would expect to see the array of strategic groups and the dis-
tribution of profit rates of firms within an industry change over
time.


     STRATEGIC GROUPS AND BARGAINING POWER

      Just as different strategic groups are protected by differing mo-
bility barriers, they enjoy differing degrees of bargaining power with
suppliers or customers. If we examine the factors leading to the pres-
ence or absence of bargaining power discussed in Chapter 1, it is ap-
parent that they relate to some extent to the strategy adopted by the
particular firm. For example, concerning bargaining power with
buyers, Hewlett-Packard (HP) is in a strategic group in electronic
calculators emphasizing high quality and technological leadership
and focusing on the sophisticated user. Although such a strategy
may limit HP's potential market share, it does expose it to less price-
sensitive and less powerful buyers than the firms competing with es-
4Technological or buyer changes can increase or decrease product substitutability,
 and hence shift relevant industry boundaries.
Structural Analysis Within Industries                               137

sentially standardized products in the mass market, where buyers
have little need for sophisticated product features. Relating this ex-
ample to the terminology of Chapter 1, HP's products are more dif-
ferentiated than those of the mass market competitors, its buyers are
more quality-oriented, and the cost of the calculator is smaller rela-
tive to the buyers' budgets and to the value of the service they want it
to perform. An example where different strategic groups have dif-
fering bargaining power with suppliers is the much greater volume of
purchases and threat of backward integration that large, broad-line,
national department store chains like Sears have as bargaining levers
with suppliers relative to local, single-unit department stores.
     Strategic groups will have differing amounts of power vis-a-vis
suppliers and buyers for two categories of reasons, both illustrated
in the examples above: Their strategies may yield them differing de-
grees of vulnerability to common suppliers or buyers; or their strate-
gies may involve dealing with different suppliers or buyers with cor-
respondingly different levels of bargaining power. The extent to
which relative power can vary depends on the industry; in some in-
dustries all strategic groups could be in essentially the same position
with respect to suppliers and buyers.
     The third step in structural analysis within an industry, then, is
to assess the relative bargaining power of each strategic group in the
industry with its suppliers and buyers.


     STRATEGIC GROUPS AND THE THREAT OF SUBSTITUTES

    Strategic groups may also face differing levels of exposure to
competition from substitute products if they are focusing on differ-
ent parts of the product line, serving different customers, operating
at different levels of quality or technological sophistication, have
different cost positions, and so on. Such differences may make them
more or less vulnerable to substitutes even though the strategic
groups are all in the same industry.
     For example, a minicomputer firm focusing on business cus-
tomers, selling machines complete with software to perform a wide
variety of functions, will be less vulnerable to substitution from mi-
crocomputers than a firm primarily selling to industrial buyers for
repetitive process-control applications. Or a mining company with a
low-cost ore source may be less vulnerable to a substitute material
138                                                  COMPETlTlVE STRATEGY

whose advantage is solely based on price than a mining company
with a high-cost ore source that has based its strategy on a high level
of customer service.
     Therefore, the fourth step in structural analysis within an indus-
try is to assess the relative position of each strategic group vis-a-vis
substitute products.

      STRATEGIC GROUPS AND RIVALRY AMONG FIRMS

     The presence of more than one strategic group in an industry has
implications for industry rivalry, or competition in price, advertis-
ing, service, and other variables. Some of the structural features that
determine the strength of competitive rivalry (Chapter 1) may apply
to all firms in the industry and thus provide the context in which the
strategic groups interact. Broadly speaking, however, the existence
of multiple strategic groups usually means that the forces of compet-
itive rivalry are not faced equally by all firms in the industry.
      The first point to be made is that the presence of several strate-
gic groups will often affect the overall level of rivalry in the industry.
Their presence will generally increase rivalry because it implies
greater diversity or asymmetry among firms in the industry in the
sense defined in Chapter 1. Differences in strategy and external cir-
cumstances mean that firms will have differing preferences about
risk taking, time horizon, price levels, quality levels, and so on.
These differences will complicate the process of firms understanding
each others' intentions and reacting to them, and will thus increase
the likelihood of repeated outbreaks of warfare. The industry with a
complicated map of strategic groups will tend to be more competi-
tive as a whole than one with few groups. Recent research has veri-
fied this point in a number of c o n t e ~ t s . ~
      Not all differences in strategy are equally significant in affecting
industry rivalry, however, and the process of competitive rivalry is
not symmetrical. Some firms are more exposed to damaging price
cutting and other forms of rivalry from other strategic groups than
others. Four factors determine how strongly the strategic groups in
an industry will interact in competing for customers:
        the market interdependence among groups, or the extent to
        which their customer targets overlap;
'See Hunt (1972); Newman (1978); Porter (1976, Chaps. 4,7).
Structural Analysis Within Industries                                139

        the product differentiation achieved by the groups;
        the number of strategic groups and their relative sizes;
        the strategic distance among groups, or the extent to which
        strategies diverge.

      The most important influence on rivalry among strategic groups
is their market interdependence, or the degree to which differ-
ent strategic groups are competing for the same customers or com-
peting for customers in distinctly different market segments. When
strategic groups have high market interdependence, differences
in strategy will lead to the most vigorous rivalry, for example, in fer-
tilizer where the customer (the farmer) is the same for all groups.
When strategic groups are targeting very different segments, their
interest in and effect on each other is much less severe. As the cus-
tomers they are selling to become more distinguished, the rivalry be-
comes more (but not the same) as if the groups were in different in-
dustries.
      The second key factor influencing rivalry is the degree of prod-
uct differentiation created by the groups' strategies. If divergent
strategies lead to distinct and differing brand preferences by custom-
ers, then rivalry among the groups will tend to be much less than if
the product offerings are seen as interchangeable.
      The more numerous and more equal in size (market share) the
strategic groups, the more their strategic asymmetry generally in-
creases competitive rivalry, other things being equal. Numerous
groups imply great diversity and a high probability that one group
will trigger an outbreak of warfare by attacking the position of other
groups through price cutting or other tactics. Conversely, if groups
are greatly unequal in size-for example, one strategic group con-
stitutes a small share of an industry and another is a very large
share-their strategic differences are likely to have little impact on
 the way they compete with each other, since the power of the small
group to affect the large groups through competitive tactics is prob-
 ably low.
      The final factor, strategic distance, refers to the degree to which
strategies in different groups diverge in terms of the key variables,
such as brand identification, cost position, and technological leader-
 ship, as well as in external circumstances, such as relationships to
 parents or governments. The more the strategic distance among
groups, other things being equal, the more vigorous competitive
140                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

skirmishing is likely to be among the firms. Firms pursuing widely
different strategic approaches tend to have quite different ideas
about how to compete and a difficult time understanding each
others' behavior and avoiding mistaken reactions and outbreaks of
warfare. In ammonium fertilizer, as an instance, oil company partic-
ipants, chemical company participants, cooperatives, and indepen-
dents all have very different objectives and constraints. For exam-
ple, tax benefits and unusual motives have led cooperatives to expand
even when overall industry conditions were poor. Oil companies did
the same thing for different reasons in the 1960s.
      All four factors interrelate to determine the pattern of rivalry
for customers among strategic groups in an industry. For example,
the most volatile situation, likely to be associated with intense com-
petition, is the one in which several equally balanced strategic
groups, each following markedly different strategies, are competing
for the same basic customer. Conv,ersely, a situation likely to be
more stable (and profitable) is one in which there are only a few
large strategic groups that each compete for distinct customer seg-
ments with strategies that do not differ except along a few dimen-
sions.
      A particular strategic group will face rivalry from other groups
based on the factors just discussed. It will be most exposed to bouts
of rivalry from the other strategic groups that share market interde-
pendence. The volatility of this rivalry will depend on the other con-
ditions identified above. A particular group will be most exposed to
rivalry from other strategic groups, for example, if they compete for
the same market segments with products perceived as similar, are
relatively equal in size, and follow quite different strategic ap-
proaches for getting the product to market (have high strategic dis-
tance). Achieving stability will be extremely difficult for such a stra-
tegic group, and outbreaks of aggressive warfare are likely to insure
a very competitive outcome for it. However, a strategic group that
has a large collective share and/or targets its efforts to distinct mar-
ket segments not served by other strategic groups and achieves high
product differentiation is likely to be more insulated from inter-
group rivalry. The secure strategic groups that are the most insulated
from rivalry will only be able to maintain profitability, however, if
mobility barriers protect them from shifts in strategic position by
other firms.
     Thus, strategic groups affect the pattern of rivalry within the in-
dustry. This process is illustrated schematically by the strategic
Structural Analysis Within Industries                              141

group map shown in Figure 7-2, which is similar to Figure 7-1 except
that the horizontal axis is the target customer segment of the strate-
gic group in order to measure market interdependence. The vertical
axis is another key dimension of strategy in the industry. The let-
tered symbols are strategic groups, their size proportional to the col-
lective market share of firms in the group. The shape of the groups is
used to represent their overall strategic configuration, with differ-
ences in shape representing strategic distance. Applying the analysis
presented earlier, it is clear that Group D will be much less affected
by industry rivalry than Group A. Group A competes with similarly
large Groups B and C, who use very different strategies to reach the
same basic customer segment. Firms in these three groups are in con-
stant warfare. Group D, on the other hand, competes for a different
segment and interacts most strongly in reaching this segment with
Groups E and F, who are smaller and follow similar strategies (they
could be viewed as "specialist" producers following the "round"
strategy or close variants to it).
      The fifth step in structural analysis within an industry, then,
 is to assess the pattern of market interdependence among stra-
 tegic groups and their vulnerability to warfare initiated by other
 groups.




Key
Strategic
Dimension       @ "(3
                               Target Customer Segment

FIGURE 7-2 Strategic Group Mapping and Intergroup Rivalry
142                                                COMPETITIVE STRATEGY



Strategic Groups and a Firm's Profitability

     We have seen that differing strategic groups can have varying
situations with respect to each and every competitive force acting on
an industry. We are now in a position to answer the question posed
earlier; namely, what factors determine the market power and hence
profit potential of individual firms in an industry, and how do these
factors relate to their strategic choices?
     Building on the concepts already presented, the underlying de-
terminants of a firm's profitability are as follows:



      1. Industry-wide elements of structure that determine the
         strength of the five competitive forces and that apply equally
         to all firms; these traits include such factors as the rate of
         growth of industry demand, overall potential for product
         differentiation, structure of supplier industries, aspects of
         technology, and so on, that set the overall context of compe-
         tition for all firms in the industry.



      2. The height of mobility barriers protecting the firm's strategic
         group.
      3. The bargaining power of the firm's strategic group with
         customers and suppliers.
      4. The vulnerability of the firm's strategic group to substitute
         products.
      5. The exposure of the firm's strategic group to rivalry from
         other groups.

      FIRM'S POSITION WITHIN ITS STRATEGIC GROUP
      6.   The degree of competition within the strategic group.
      7.   The scale of the firm relative to others in its group.
      8.   Costs of entry into the group.
      9.   The ability of the firm to execute or implement its chosen
           strategy in an operational sense.
   Structural Analysis Within Industries                               143

        Industry-wide characteristics of market structure raise or lower
  profit potential for all firms in the industry, but not all strategies in
  the industry have equal profit potential. The higher the mobility bar-
  riers protecting the strategic group, the stronger the group's bargain-
  ing position with suppliers and customers, the lower the group's vul-
  nerability to substitute products, and the less exposed the group is to
  rivalry from other groups, the higher the average profit potential of
  firms in that group will be. Thus a second critical set of determinants
  of a firm's success is the position of its strategic group in the indus-
  try, which has been amplified in earlier sections.
        The third category of determinants of a firm's position, which
  has not been discussed so far, is where the firm stands within its stra-
  tegic group. A number of factors are crucial to this standing. First,
  the degree of competition within the group is important because
  firms in the group may compete away potential profits among
  themselves. This effect is more likely to occur if there are many firms
  in the strategic group.
        Second, all firms following the same strategy are not necessarily
  equally positioned from a structural standpoint. Specifically, a
  firm's structural position may be affected by its scale relative to
  others in its strategic group. If there are any economies of scale oper-
  ating that are large enough so that costs are still declining in the
  range of market shares held by firms in the group, then the firms
  that have relatively small shares will have lower profit potential. For
  example, although Ford and GM have relatively similar strategies
" and could be classified in the same strategic group, GM's greater
  scale allows it to reap some of the economies inherent in the strategy
  that Ford cannot, such as in research and development and model
  changeover costs. Firms like Ford have overcome scale-related mo-
  bility barriers and gotten into the strategic group, but they still face
  some cost disadvantages relative to a larger firm in the group.
       The firm's position in its strategic group also depends on its cost
  of entering the group. The skills and resources available to the firm
  in entering a group may give it an advantage or disadvantage relative
  to others in the group. Some of these skills or resources for entry are
  based on the firm's position in other industries or its previous suc-
  cess in other strategic groups in the same industry. For example,
  John Deere could get into almost any strategic group in the construc-
  tion equipment industry more cheaply than most firms because of its
  strong position in farm equipment. Or Procter and Gamble's Char-
144                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

min could enter the national brand toilet tissue group more cheaply
because of the combination of Charmin's past technological accom-
plishments coupled with Procter and Gamble's distribution strength.
      The costs of entry into a group can be affected by the firm's
timing of entry into it. In some industries it may be more expensive
for late entrants into a strategic group to establish their position
(e.g., higher cost of establishing an equivalent brand name; higher
cost of finding good distribution -channels because of foreclosure of
channels by other firms). Or the situation may be reversed if newer
entrants can purchase the latest equipment or use new technology.
Differences in timing of entry may also translate into differences in
cumulative experience and hence costs. Thus differences in timing of
entry may translate into differences in sustainable profitability
among members of the same strategic group.
      The final factor entering into the analysis of a firm's position in
its strategic group is its implementation ability. Not all firms pursu-
ing the same strategy (thus in the same strategic group) will necessar-
ily be equally profitable even if the other conditions that have been
described are identical. Some firms are superior in their ability to or-
ganize and manage operations, develop creative advertising themes
with equal budgets, make technological breakthroughs with the
same expenditures on R&D, and so on. These sorts of skills are not
structural advantages of the sort created by mobility barriers and the
other factors discussed above, but they may well be relatively stable
advantages. The firms that have superior implementation ability will
be more profitable than other firms in the strategic group.
      This cascading array of factors jointly determine the profit
prospects of the individual firm, and at the same time, its prospects
for market share. The firm will be most profitable if it is in a favor-
able industry, a favorable strategic group within that industry, and
has a strong position in its group. New entrants do not eliminate the
attractiveness of the industry because of entry barriers; the attrac-
tiveness of a strategic group is preserved by mobility barriers. The
strength of a firm's position in its group is the result of its history
and the skills and resources available to it.
      This analysis makes it clear that there are many different kinds
of potentially profitable strategies. Successful strategies can be
based on a wide variety of mobility barriers or approaches to dealing
with the competitive forces. The three generic strategies described in
Chapter 2 represent the broadest difference in approach; many vari-
Structural Analysis Within Industries                               145

ations of these are possible. Much stress has recently been placed on
cost position as the determinant of strategic position. Although cost
is one approach to developing barriers, it should be clear that there
are many others.
      In view of the interacting nature of the considerations determin-
ing firm profitability, the profit potential of a firm is strongly af-
fected by the competitive outcome in those strategic groups that are
market interdependent and have higher mobility barriers. The strate-
gic groups with higher mobility barriers have greater profit potential
than the less protected groups if competition within them is not too
great. However, if competition within them is fierce for some reason
and their prices and profits are thereby lowered, it can also destroy
the profitability of the firms in the interdependent groups less pro-
tected by mobility barriers. Lower prices (or higher costs through
advertising and other forms of non-price competition) spill over via
market interdependence so that less protected groups must respond,
driving down their own profits. This is a risk that must be assessed in
choosing a strategic group.
      A good example of this process is seen in the soft drink indus-
try. If Coke and Pepsi get into a price war or advertising battle, their
profits are diminished, but not nearly so much as those of the region-
al and local brands who inevitably are affected because their produc-
ers are competing for the same customers. Competition among
Coke, Pepsi, and the other major brands, protected by substantial
mobility barriers, lowers the profit umbrella over the regional and
local brands. They tend to lose not only profits but relative share.


     ARE LARGE FIRMS MORE PROFITABLE THAN
     SMALL FIRMS?

     There has been much recent discussion about strategy arguing
that the firm with the largest market share will be the most profit-
able.6 The previous analysis suggests that whether this is true or not
depends on the circumstances. If large firms in an industry compete
in strategic groups that are more protected by mobility barriers than
smaller firms, in stronger positions relative to customers and suppli-
ers, more insulated from rivalry with other groups, and so on, then
'See, for example, Buzzell et al. (1975).
146                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

 the large firms will indeed be more profitable than smaller firms. For
 example, in industries like brewing and the manufacture of toiletries
 and television sets, where there are substantial economies of scale in
 manufacturing, distributing, and servicing a full product line as well
 as economies of scale in national advertising, then the large firms in
 the industry will probably be more profitable than smaller firms. On
 the other hand, if economies of scale in production, distribution, or
 other functions are not too great, smaller firms following specialist
strategies may be able to achieve higher product differentiation or
greater technological progressiveness or superior service in their par-
 ticular product niches than larger firms. In such industries, smaller
 firms may well be more profitable than larger, broader-line firms (as
in women's clothing and carpets).
      It is sometimes argued that if firms with small shares are more
 profitable than those with large shares, it reflects a mistake in indus-
try definition. Proponents of the dominant role of market share ar-
gue that we should define the market more narrowly, in which case
"small" firms will indeed have a larger share of a specialized seg-
ment than does a broad-line firm. But if we use a narrow market def-
inition, we should also define the market narrowly in industries
where broad-line firms happen to be the most profitable. In such
cases we would often find that large firms did not necessarily have
the highest share of every segment but yet reaped advantages of
overall scale. Ascribing the higher profits of specialized, small-share
firms to specialized market definition begs the question we are seek-
ing to answer; namely, under what industry circumstances can a firm
select a specialist strategy (to take just one strategic option) without
being vulnerable to economies of scale or product differentiation
achieved by broader-line firms? Or under what circumstances is
overall share in the industry unimportant? The answer will differ by
industry, depending on the array of mobility barriers and the other
structural and firm-specific features that I have outlined.
      Empirical evidence suggests that the relationship between the
profitability of larger share and smaller share depends on the indus-
try. Exhibit 7-1 compares the rate of return on equity of the largest
firms accounting for at least 30 percent of industry sales (leaders) to
the rate of return on equity of the medium-sized firms in the same in-
dustry (followers). In this calculation small firms with assets less
than $500,000 were excluded. Although some of the industries in the
sample are overly broad, it is striking that followers were noticeably
E X H l B l T 7-1. Relative Profitability of lndustry Leaders and Industry Followers'
Follower's Rate of Return         Follower's Rate of Return         Leader's Rate of Return         Leader's Rate of Return
Much Higher (4.0 or more          .5to 4.0 Percentage Points        2.5 to 4.0 Percentage           Much Higher (4.0 or more
Percentage Points) than           Higher than Leader's              Points Higher than              Percentage Points) than
Leader Return                     Return                            Follower's Return               Follower's Return
Meat products                     Sugar                             Dairy products                  Wine
Liquor                            Tobacco (besides                  Grain mill products             Soft drinks
Periodicals                         cigarettes)                     Beer                            Soap
Carpets                           Knit goods                        Drugs                           Perfumes, cosmetics, and
Leather goods                     Women's clothing                  Jewelry                           toilet preparations
Optical, medical, and             Men's clothing                                                    Paint
   ophthalmic goods               Footwear                                                          Cutlery, hand tools, and
                                  Pottery and related                                                 general hardware
                                    products                                                        Household appliances
                                  Electric lighting                                                 Radio and television
                                    equipment                                                       Photographic equipment
                                  Toys and sporting                                                   and supplies
                                                                                                              ..
                                    goods
 Source:Porter (1979).
'Includes 26 of a comprehensive sample of 38 consumer industries for the years 1963-65. In the 12 other industries not listed, average
leader's group rate of return generally exceeded, and in some cases equaled, follower's group rate of return.
148                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

more profitable than leaders in 15 of 38 industries. The industries in
which the followers' rates of return were higher appear generally to
be those where economies of scale are either not great or absent
(clothing, footwear, pottery, meat products, carpets) and/or those
that are highly segmented (optical, medical and ophthalmic goods,
liquor, periodicals, carpets, and toys and sporting goods). The in-
dustries in which leaders' rates of return are higher seem to be gen-
erally those with heavy advertising (soap; perfumes; soft drinks;
grain mill products, i.e., cereal; cutlery) and/or research outlays and
production economies of scale (radio and television, drugs, photo-
graphic equipment). This outcome is as we would expect.


      STRATEGIC GROUPS AND COST POSITION

      Another comparatively recent phenomenon in thinking on strat-
egy formulation is that cost position is the only sustainable factor on
which to build a competitive strategy. The firm with lowest costs,
holds this view, will always be in a position to invade the territory of
other areas of strategy, like differentiation, technology, or service,
on which other strategic groups are based.
      This view is seriously misleading, even putting aside the fact
that low-cost position is by no means easy to sustain. As described
most broadly in Chapter 2, in most industries there are a variety of
ways to create mobility barriers or otherwise build a solid structural
position. These different strategies will usually involve differing and
often conflicting sets of functional policies. A firm attempting to
achieve the greatest effectiveness at one strategy will rarely also be
most effective in serving the needs met by others. Low-cost position
within the strategic group may well be crucial, but low-cost position
overall is not necessarily important or the only way to compete.
Achieving low-cost position overall often involves a sacrifice in
other areas of strategy, like differentiation, technology, or service,
on which other strategic groups are based.
      It is true, however, that strategic groups competing on bases
other than low cost must be constantly aware of the differential be-
tween their costs and those of the overall low-cost strategic groups.
If this differential becomes large enough, then customers may be in-
duced to switch to the lower-cost groups despite a sacrifice in qual-
ity, service, technological progressiveness, or other areas. Relative
cost position among groups is a key strategic variable in this sense.
Structural Analysis Within Industries                                 149


Implications for Formulation of Strategy
      Formulating competitive strategy in an industry can be viewed
as the choice of which strategic group to compete in. This choice
may involve selecting the existing group that involves the best trade-
off between profit potential and the firm's costs of entering it, or it
may involve the creation of an entirely new strategic group. Struc-
tural analysis within an industry points to the factors that will deter-
mine the success of a particular strategic positioning for the firm.
      As described in the Introduction, the broadest guidance for the
formulation of strategy is stated in terms of matching a firm's
strengths and weaknesses, particularly its distinctive competence, to
the opportunities and risk in its environment. The principles of
structural analysis within an industry allow us to be much more con-
crete and specific about just what a firm's strengths, weaknesses,
distinctive competence, and industry opportunities and risks are. A
firm's strengths and weaknesses can be listed as follows:
              Strengths                           Weaknesses
   factors that build the mobili-        factors that lower the mobili-
   ty barriers protecting its stra-      ty barriers protecting its stra-
   tegic group;                          tegic group;
   factors enhancing the bar-            factors worsening the bar-
   gaining power of its group vis-       gaining power of its group
   a-vis buyers and suppliers;           vis-a-vis buyers and sup-
   factors insulating its group          pliers;
   from rivalry from other               factors exposing its group to
   firms;                                rivalry from other firms;
   greater scale relative to its         smaller scale relative to its
   strategic.group;                      strategic group;
   factors allowing lower costs          factors causing higher costs
   of entry into its strategic           of entry into its strategic
   group than others;                    group than others;
   strong implementation abili-          weaker implementation abili-
   ties vis-a-vis its strategy rela-     ties vis-a-vis its strategy rela-
   tive to its competitors;              tive to its competitors;
   resources and skills allowing         the lack of resources and
   the firm to overcome mobili-          skills that would allow the
   ty barriers and move into             firm to overcome mobility
   even more desirable strategic         barriers and move into more
   groups.                               desirable strategic groups.
150                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

If the key mobility barriers into a firm's strategic group are based,
for example, on its broad product line, proprietary technology, or
absolute cost advantages due to experience, these sources of mobility
barriers define some of the firm's key strengths. Or if the most desir-
able strategic group in the firm's industry is protected by mobility
barriers resting on the achievement of economies of scale through a
captive distribution and service organization, the lack of such a fac-
tor becomes one of the firm's key weaknesses. Structural analysis
gives us a framework for systematically identifying a firm's key
strengths and weaknesses relative to competitors. These strengths
and weaknesses are not cast in concrete but can change as industry
evolution realigns the relative position of strategic groups or as firms
innovate or make investments to change their structural position.
      This framework for viewing strengths and weaknesses illumi-
nates two fundamentally different types: structural and implementa-
tional. Structural strengths and weaknesses rest on the underlying
characteristics of industry structure, such as mobility barriers, deter-
minants of relative bargaining power, and so on. As such they are
relatively stable and difficult to overcome. Strengths and weaknesses
in implementation, based on differences in a firm's ability to execute
strategies, rest on people and managerial abilities. As such, they may
be more ephemeral, though not necessarily. In any case, it is impor-
tant to make a distinction between the two in analysis of strategy.
     The strategic opportunities facing the firm in its industry can
also be made more concrete by using these concepts. Opportunities
can be divided into a number of categories:
       create a new strategic group;
       shift to a more favorably situated strategic group;
       strengthen the structural position of the existing group or the
       firm's position in the group;
       shift to a new group and strengthen that group's structural
       position.
     Perhaps the class of opportunities with the highest payoff is in
creating a new strategic group. Technological changes or evolution
in the structure of the industry often open up possibilities for entirely
new strategic groups. Even without such stimuli, the visionary firm
might be able to perceive a new, favorably situated strategic group
not perceived by its competitors. American Motors, for example,
identified a uniquely positioned compact car in the mid-1950s, for a
time overcoming serious disadvantages vis-a-vis the Big Three. Timex
Structural Analysis Within Industries                               151

created a new conception of a low-price, reliable watch, coupling
new manufacturing techniques with a new distribution and market-
ing approach. More recently, Hanes created an entirely new group in
hosiery with its L'eggs strategy. Although vision is a scarce com-
modity, structural analysis can help direct thinking toward the areas
of change that would yield the highest payoff.
      Another class of potential strategic opportunity is represented
by the more favorably situated strategic groups in the industry that
the firm might choose to enter.
      A third type of strategic opportunity is the possibility for the
firm to make investments or adjustments that improve the structural
position of its existing strategic group or its position within the
group, for example, increase mobility barriers, improve position vis-
a-vis substitute products, strengthen marketing ability, and so on. It
is also possible to view such investments and adjustments as creating
a new and better strategic group.
      A final type of strategic opportunity is that of entering other
strategic groups and increasing their mobility barriers or otherwise
improving their position. Structural evolution in an industry is a
powerful creator of possibilities to make this change as well as to im-
prove the firm's position in its existing group.
      The risks facing a firm can be identified by using the same basic
concepts:
       risks of other firms entering its strategic group;
       risks of factors reducing the mobility barriers of the firm's
       strategic group, lowering power with customers or suppliers,
       worsening position relative to substitute products, or expos-
       ing it to greater rivalry;
       risks that accompany investments designed to improve the
       firm's position by increasing mobility barriers;
       risks of attempting to overcome mobility barriers into more
       desirable strategic groups or entirely new groups.
The first two can be viewed as threats to the firm's existing position,
or risks of inaction, whereas the latter are risks of pursuing opportu-
nities.
     The firm's choice of strategies, or which strategic group to com-
pete in, is a process of relating all these factors. Many, if not most,
major strategic breakthroughs come about because of changing
structure. Structural analysis shows how a firm's existing strategic
position coupled with existing industry structure translates into per-
152                                              COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

formance in the marketplace. If industry structure is unchanging,
then the cost of overcoming mobility barriers to move to another
strategic group already occupied by other firms may well eliminate
the benefits. However, if the firm can perceive an entirely new stra-
tegic position that is favorable structurally, or if it can change its po-
sition at a time when industry evolution lowers the cost of shifting,
then a truly significant improvement in performance can result. The
framework identified here should illuminate what to look for in such
a repositioning.
     The three generic strategies identified in Chapter 2 represent
three broad and consistent approaches to successful strategic posi-
tioning. In the context of this chapter, they are different broad types
of strategic groups that can be successful depending on the econom-
ics of the particular industry. This chapter has added a lot more flesh
and blood to the analysis of the generic strategies. It is clear, based
on this chapter, that the generic strategies rest on creating (in differ-
ent ways) mobility barriers; favorable position with buyers, suppli-
ers, and substitutes; and insulation from rivalry. Our extended con-
cept of structural analysis, then, is a way of making the notion of
generic strategiesclearer and more operational.


The Strategic Group Map as an Analytical Tool

     We are now in a position to return to a discussion of the strate-
gic group map as an analytical tool. The map is a very useful way to
graphically display competition in an industry and to see how indus-
try changes or how trends might affect it. It is a map of "strategy
space," instead of price and volume.
     In mapping strategic groups, the few strategic variables used as
axes of the map must be selected by the analyst. In doing so, a num-
ber of principles will prove useful. First, the best strategic variables
to use as axes are those that determine the key mobility barriers in
the industry. For example, in soft drinks the key barriers are brand
identification and distribution channels, which thus serve as useful
axes in a strategic group map. Second, in mapping groups it is im-
portant to select as axes variables that do not move together. For ex-
ample, if all the firms with high product differentiation also have
broad product lines, then both these variables should not serve as
axes on the map. Rather, variables that reflect the diversity of strate-
Structural Analysis Within Industries                                            153

gic combinations in the industry should be selected. Third, the axes
for a map need not be continuous or monotonic variables. For exam-
ple, the target channels in the chain saw industry are servicing deal-
ers, mass merchandisers, and sellers of private labels. Some firms
focus on one of these, whereas some attempt to span the range. Ser-
vicing dealers are most distinct from private label in terms of re-
quired strategy, and mass merchandisers are somewhere in between.
In mapping the industry, it is perhaps most illuminating to array
firms as shown in Figure 7-3. Firms are located to reflect their mix of

FIGURE 7-3. Illustrative Map of the U.S. Chain Saw industry



                      Professional
      High              Group
                          Stihl
                       Jonsereds
                       Husqvarna




                             0       Ski1             Mass Market




                                                            Private Label
                                                               Group

                                                            Beaird-Poulan
   Average                                                     Roper




                   Dealers                      Mass                   Private
                                            Merchandisers               Label

                                        Mix of Channels
154                                            COMPETITIVESTRATEGY

channels. A final principle is that an industry can be mapped several
times, using various combinations of strategic dimensions, to help
the analyst see the key competitive issues. Mapping is a tool to help
diagnose competitive relationships, and there is no necessarily right
approach.
     Having constructed a strategic group map of an industry, a
number of analytical steps can be illuminating:

     Identifying Mobility Barriers. The mobility barriers that pro-
tect each group from attacks from other groups can be identified.
For example, the key barriers protecting the high quality/dealer-ori-
ented group in Figure 7-3 are technology, brand image, and an estab-
lished network of servicing dealers. The key barriers protecting the
private label group, on the other hand, are economies of scale, expe-
rience, and to some extent relationships with private label custom-
ers. Such an exercise can be very illuminating in predicting threats to
the various groups and probable shifts in position among firms.

    Identifying Marginal Groups. A structural analysis like that
described earlier in this chapter can identify groups whose position is
tenuous or marginal. These are candidates for exit or for attempts at
moving into another group.

     Charting Directions of Strategic Movement. A very important
use of the strategic group map is to chart the directions in which
firms' strategies are moving and might shift from an industry-wide
point of view. This task is most easily done by drawing arrows ema-
nating from each strategic group that represent the direction in
which the group (or a firm in the group) seems to be moving in stra-
tegic space, if any. Doing this for all groups might show that firms
are moving apart strategically, which can be stabilizing to industry
competition, particularly if it involves increasing separation of the
target market segments served. Or such an exercise might show that
strategic positions are converging, which can be very volatile.

     Analyzing Trends. It can be illuminating to think through the
implications of each industry trend for the strategic group map. Is
the trend closing off the viability of some groups? Where will firms
in that group shift? Is the trend elevating the barriers held by some
groups? Will the trend reduce the ability of groups to separate them-
Structural Analysis'Within Industries                                155

selves along some dimension? All these factors can lead to predic-
tions about industry evolution.

     Predicting Reactions. The map can be used to predict reac-
tions of the industry to an event. Firms in a group tend to react sym-
metrically to disturbances or trends given the similarity of their strat-
egies.
Industry Evolution



Structural analysis gives us a framework for understanding the com-
petitive forces operating in a n industry that are crucial to developing
competitive strategy. It is clear, however, that industries' structures
change, often in fundamental ways. Entry barriers and concentra-
tion have gone up significantly in the U.S. brewing industry, for ex-
ample, and the threat of substitutes has risen to put a severe squeeze
on acetylene producers.
     Industry evolution takes on critical importance for formulation
of strategy. It can increase or decrease the basic attractiveness of an
industry as a n investment opportunity,.and it often requires the firm
to make strategic adjustments. Understanding the process of indus-
try evolution and being able to predict change are important because
the cost of reacting strategically usually increases as the need for
change becomes more obvious and the benefit from the best strategy
is the highest for the first firm to select it. For example, in the early
postwar farm equipment business, structural change elevated the im-
portance of a strong exclusive dealer network backed by company
support and credit. The firms that recognized this change first had
their pick of dealers to choose from.
     This chapter will present analytical tools for predicting the evo-
lutionary process in a n industry and understanding its significance
for the formulation of competitive strategy, The chapter begins by
describing some basic concepts in the analysis of industry evolution.
156
Industry Evolution                                                            157
Next I will identify the driving forces that are at the root of industry
change. Finally, some important economic relationships in the evo-
lutionary process will be described and strategic implications ex-
plored.



Basic Concepts in Industry Evolution

     The starting point for analyzing industry evolution is the frame-
work of structural analysis in Chapter 1. Industry changes will carry
strategic significance if they promise to affect the underlying sources
of the five competitive forces; otherwise changes are important only
in a tactical sense. The simplest approach to analyzing evolution is to
ask the following question: Are there any changes occuring in the in-
dustry that will affect each element of structure? For example, do
any of the industry trends imply an increase or decrease in mobility
barriers? An increase or decrease in the relative power of buyers or
suppliers? If this question is asked in a disciplined way for each com-
petitive force and the economic causes underlying it, a profile of the
significant issues in the evolution of an industry will result.
      Although this industry-specific approach is the place to start, it
may not be sufficient, because it is not always clear what industry
changes are occurring currently, much less which changes might oc-
cur in the future. Given the importance of being able to predict evo-
lution, it is desirable to have some analytical techniques which will
aid in anticipating the pattern of industry changes that we might ex-
pect to occur.


     PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE

      The grandfather of concepts for predicting the probable course
of industry evolution is the familiar product life cycle. The hypothe-
sis is that an industry' passes through a number of phases or stages-
introduction, growth, maturity, and decline-illustrated in Figure
8-1. These stages are defined by inflection points in the rate of
growth of industry sales. Industry growth follows an S-shaped curve
 There is some controversy about whether the life cycle applies only to individual
 Products or to whole industries. The view that it applies to industries is summa-
 rized here.
158                                                    COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

because of the process of innovation and diffusion of a new prod-
uct.* The flat introductory phase of industry growth reflects the dif-
ficulty of overcoming buyer inertia and stimulating trials of the new
product. Rapid growth occurs as many buyers rush into the market
once the product has proven itself successful. Penetration of the
product's potential buyers is eventually reached, causing the rapid
growth to stop and to level off to the underlying rate of growth of
the relevant buyer group. Finally, growth will eventually taper off as
new substitute products appear.
      As the industry goes through its life cycle, the nature of compe-
tition will shift. I have summarized in Figure 8-2 the most common
predictions about how an industry will change over the life cycle and
how this should affect strategy.
     The product life cycle has attracted some legitimate criticism:
     1. The duration of the stages varies widely from industry to in-
dustry, and it is often not clear what stage of the life cycle an indus-
try is in. This problem diminishes the usefulness of the concept as a
planning tool.
     2. Industry growth does not always go through the S-shaped
pattern at all. Sometimes industries skip maturity, passing straight
from growth to decline. Sometimes industry growth revitalizes after
a period of decline, as has occurred in the motorcycle and bicycle in-
dustries and recently in the radio broadcasting industry. Some indua-
tries seem to skip the slow takeoff of the introductory phase alto-
gether.

FIGURE 8-1. Stages of the Life Cycle
      r
          Introduction        Growth            Maturity             Decline




                                                                Time
'Kotler (1972), pp. 432-433; see also Polli and Cook (1969), pp. 385-387.
FIGURE 8-2 Predictions of Product Life Cycle.TheoriesAbout Strategy, Competition, and Performance
                         Introduction                  Growth                     Maturity                      Decline
Buyers and         High income purchaserj.kJ   Widening buyer groupj       Mass market1                Customers are sophisti-
  Buyer Behavior   Buyer interiaa              Consumer will accept        Saturationa                   cated buyers of the
                   Buyers must be convinced      uneven qualityi           Repeat buyinga.j              producti
                     to try the pr0ducta.j                                 Choosing among brands
                                                                             is the rulea
Products and       Poor quality!               Products have technical     Superior quality'           Little product differen-
  Product Change   Product design and            and performance dif-      Less product differen-        tiati0nh.i
                     development keys            ferentiationh               tiati0nb.f.i              Spotty product quality1
                   Many different product      Reliability key for         Standardi~ationf~k
                     variations; n o stand-      complex products8         Less rapid product
                     ards'                     Competitive product im-       changes-more minor
                   Frequent design change#       provementsj                 annual model changesiJ
                   Basic product designs1      Good quality'               Trade-ins become signifi-
                                                                             cantj

Marketing          Very high advertising/      High advertising,b but      Market segmentati~na~j~l Low a/s and other
                     sales (a/s)b*h              lower percent of sales    Efforts t o extend life    marketingb.~
                   Creaming price strategy k     than introductoryb*h        cyc1ed.i
                   High marketing costsj       Most promotion of ethical   Broaden linej
                                                 drugs                     Service and deals more
                                               Advertising and distribu-     prevalenta,~
                                                 tion key for nontechni-   Packaging important*
                                                cal products8              Advertising competitions
                                                                           Lower a/sa.b
FIGURE 8-2 Continued
                         Introduction                  Growth                       Maturity                      Decline
Manufacturing and   Overcapacity'              Undercapacity1               Some overcapacity"            Substantial overcapacitya.1
 Distribution       Short production runsjsk   Shift toward mass pro-       Optimum capacity'             Mass productionh
                    High skilled-labor con-      ducti0nj.k                 Increasing stability of       Specialty channels'
                      tentk                    Scramble for distributionj     manufacturing processe
                    High production costsj     Mass channelsl               Lower labor skillsk
                    Specialized channels'                                   Long production runs
                                                                              with stable techniquesk
                                                                            Distribution channels
                                                                              pare down their lines to
                                                                              improve their marginsj
                                                                            High physical distribution
                                                                              costs due to broad linesj
                                                                            Mass channels'
R&D                 Changing production
                      techniquesk
Foreign Trade       Some exportsk              Significant exportsk         Falling exportsk              No exportsk
                                               Few importsk                 Significant importsk          Significant importsk
Overall Strategy    Best period to increase    Practical to change price    Bad time to increase          Cost control keypsi
                      market sharee              or quality imagei            market sharee
                    R&D, engineering are key   Marketing the key func-      Particularly if low-share
                      functions'                 tioni                        companye
                                                                            Having competitive costs
                                                                              becomes keyj
                                                                            Bad time to change price
                                                                              image or quality imagei
                                                                            "Marketing effective-
                                                                              ness" keys
    FIGURE 8-2       Continued
                                    Introduction                         Growth                  Maturity                    Decline
    Competition               Few companiesasjsk.l            Entrya                     Price competitiona.i.j9k    Exitsa
                                                              Many competitorsa.d.j.l    Shake0utj.k                 Fewer competitorsjJ
                                                              Lots of mergers and cas-   Increase in private
                                                                ualties[                   brandsd.e
    Risk                      High riska                      Risks can be taken here    Cyclicality sets inj
                                                                because growth covers
                                                                them upi
    Margins and               High prices and                High profitsb.jJ            Falling pricesb.'           Low prices and.marginsa
     Profits                    marginsb.jJ                  Highest profitsh            Lower profits1              Falling pricesbJ
                              Low profitsg.i                 Fairly high pricesb         Lower margin&'              Prices might rise in
                              Price elasticity to individ-   Lower prices than intro-    Lower dealer marginsi.j       late declinejJ
                                ual seller not as great as     ductory phasej            Increased stability of
                                in maturityk                 Recession resistantj          market shares and price
                                                             High P/E'sj                   structuree
                                                             Good acquisition climate]   Poor acquisition climate
                                                                                           -tough to sell com-
                                                                                           paniesj
                                                                                         Lowest prices and
                                                                                           margins1

    aLevitt (1965).               BClifford (1965).
    bBuzzell(1966).               hForrester(1959).
    CCox(1967).                   'Patton (1959).
    dBuzzellet al. (1972).        JStaudt,Taylor, and Bowersox (1976).
    eCatryand Chevalier (1974).   kWells(1972).
2   'Dean (1950).                 lSrnallwood(1973).
162                                                      COMPETITIVESTRATEGY

      3. Companies can affect the shape of the growth curve through
product innovation and repositioning, extending it in a variety of
ways.' If a company takes the life cycle as given, it becomes an unde-
sirable self-fulfilling prophesy.
      4. The nature of competiticn associated with each stage of the
life cycle is different for different industries. For example, some in-
dustries start out highly concentrated and stay that way. Others, like
bank cash dispensers, are concentrated for a significant period and
then become less so. Still others begin highly fragmented; of these
some consolidate (automobiles) and some do not (electronic compo-
nent distribution). The same divergent patterns apply to advertising,
R&D expenditures, degree of price competition, and most other in-
dustry characteristics. Divergent patterns such as these call into seri-
ous question the strategic implications ascribed to the life cycle.
      The real problem with the product life cycle as a predictor of in-
dustry evolution is that it attempts to describe one pattern of evolu-
tion that will invariably occur. And except for the industry growth
rate, there is little or no underlying rationale for why the competitive
changes associated with the life cycle will happen. Since actual in-
dustry evolution takes so many different paths, the life cycle pattern
does not always hold, even if it is a common or even the most com-
mon pattern of evolution. Nothing in the concept allows us to pre-
dict when it will hold and when it will not.


      A FRAMEWORK FOR FORECASTING EVOLUTION

     Instead of attempting to describe industry evolution, it will
prove more fruitful to look underneath the process to see what really
drives it. Like any evolution, industries evolve because some forces
are in motion that create incentives or pressures for change. These
can be called evolutionary processes.
     Every industry begins with an initial structure-the entry bar-
riers, buyer and supplier power, and so on which exist when the in-
dustry comes into existence. This structure is usually (though not al-
ways) a far cry from the configuration the industry will take later in
its development. The initial structure results from a combination of
underlying economic and technical characteristics of the industry,
the initial constraints of small industry size, and the skills and re-
'For a discussion of these methods, see Levitt (1965).
    Industry Evolution                                                  163

    sources of the companies that are early entrants. For example, even
    an industry like automobiles with enormous possibilities for econo-
    mies of scale started out with labor-intensive, job-shop production
    operations because of the small volumes of cars produced during the
    early years.
          The evolutionary processes work to push the industry toward its
    potential structure, which is rarely known completely as an industry
    evolves. Imbedded in the underlying technology, product character-
    istics, and nature of present and potential buyers, however, there is
    a range of structures the industry might possibly achieve, depending
    on the direction and success of research and development, marketing
    innovations, and the like.
          It is important to realize that instrumental in much industry
    evolution are the investment decisions by both existing firms in the
    industry and new entrants. In response to pressures or incentives cre-
    ated by the evolutionary process, firms invest to take advantage of
    possibilities for new marketing approaches, new manufacturing fa-
    cilities, and the like, which shift entry barriers, alter relative power
    against suppliers and buyers, and so on. The luck, skills, resources,
    and orientation of firms in the industry can shape the evolutionary
    path the industry will actually take. Despite potential for structural
    change, an industry may not actually change because no firm hap-
    pens to discover a feasible new marketing approach; or potential
    scale economies may go unrealized because no firm possesses the fi-
    nancial resources to construct a fully integrated facility or simply be-
    cause no firm is inclined to think about costs. Because innovation,
    technological developments, and the identities (and resources) of the
    particular firms either in the industry or considering entry into it are
    so important to evolution, industry evolution will not only be hard
    to forecast with certainty but also an industry can potentially evolve
    in a variety of ways at a variety of different speeds, depending on the
    luck of the draw.



I   Evolutionary Processes

         Although initial structure, structural potential, and particular
    firms' investment decisions will be industry-specific, we can general-
    ize about what are the important evolutionary processes. There are
164                                            COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

some predictable (and interacting) dynamic processes that occur in
every industry in one form or another, though their speed and direc-
tion will differ from industry to industry:
         Iong-run changes in growth;
         changes in buyer segments served;
         buyers' learning;
         reduction of uncertainty;
         diffusion of proprietary knowledge;
         accumulation of experience;
         expansion (or contraction) in scale;
         changes in input and currency costs;
         product innovation;
         marketing innovation;
         process innovation;
         structural change in adjacent industries;
         government policy change;
         entries and exits.
     Each evolutionary process will be described, with attention to
its determinants, its relationship to other processes, and its strategic
implications.


      LONG-RUN CHANGES IN GROWTH

      Perhaps the most ubiquitous force leading to structural change
is a change in the long-run industry growth rate. Industry growth is a
key variable in determining the intensity of rivalry in the industry,
and it sets the pace of expansion required to maintain share, thereby
influencing the supply and demand balance and the inducement the
industry offers to new entrants.
      There are five important external reasons why long-run industry
growth changes:


     In consumer goods, demographic changes are one key determi-
nant of the size of the buyer pool for a product and thereby the rate
of growth in demand. The potential customer group for a product
may be as broad as all households, but it usually consists of buyers
characterized by particular age groups, income levels, educational
levels, or geographic locations. As the total growth rate of the popu-
    Industry Evolution                                                  165

    lation, its distribution by age group and income level, and demo-
    graphic factors change, these translate directly into alterations in de-
    mand. A particularly vivid current example of this situation is the
    adverse effect of the reduced U.S. birthrate on demand for baby
    products of all types, whereas products catering to the 25-to-35-year-
    old age group are currently enjoying the effects of the post-World
    War I1 baby boom. Demographics also represent a potential prob-
    lem for the recording and candy industries, which have traditionally
    sold most heavily to the pre-20-year-old age group, which is current-
    ly shrinking.
          Part of the effect of demographic changes is caused by income
    elasticity, which refers to the change in a buyer's demand for a prod-
    uct as hidher income rises. For some products (mink golf club
    covers), demand tends to rise disproportionately with buyers' in-
    come. For other products, demand rises less than proportionally as
    incomes rise, or even falls. It is important from a strategic point of
    view to identify where an industry's product lies in this spectrum,
    because it is critical to forecasting long-run growth as general in-
    come levels of buyers change both in a firm's home country and in
    potential international markets. Sometimes industries can shift their
    products up or down the scale of income elasticity through product
    innovation, however, so the effects of income elasticity are not nec-
    essarily a foregone conclusion.
          For industrial products, the effect of demographic changes on
    demand is based on the life cycle of customer industries. Demo-
    graphics affect consumers' demand for end products, which filters
    back to affect the industries supplying inputs toward those end prod-
    ucts.
          Firms can attempt to cope with adverse demographics by widen-
    ing the buyer group for their product through product innovations,
    new marketing approaches, additional service offerings, and so on.
    These approache'? can in turn affect industry structure by raising
    economies of scale, exposing the industry to fundamentally different
    buyer groups with different bargaining power, and so forth.



I        Demand for an industry's product is affected by changes in the
    lifestyle, tastes, philosophies, and social conditions of the buyer
    population which any society tends to experience over time. For ex-
    ample, in the late 1960s and early 1970s there were such shifts in the
    United States as a return to "nature," increased leisure time, more
166                                              COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

casual dress, and nostalgia. These trends boosted demand for back-
packs, blue jeans, and other products. The recent "back to basics"
movement in education is creating new demand for standardized
reading and writing tests, to give another example. There have also
been social trends such as an increase in the crime rate, the changing
role of women, and increased health consciousness that have in-
creased demand for some products (bicycles, day care) and reduced
demand for others.
      Trends in needs like these not only directly affect demand but
also affect the demand for industrial products indirectly through in-
tervening industries. Trends in needs affect the demand in particular
industry segments as well as total industry demand. Needs may be
newly created or just made more intense by social trends. For exam-
ple, property theft has increased quite dramatically in the last twenty
years, greatly increasing the demand for security guards, locks,
safes, and alarm systems. The rising expected losses due to theft
have justified greater spending to prevent it.
      Finally, changes in government regulation can increase or de-
crease needs for products. For example, demand for pinball and slot
machines is growing as a result of impending and already passed leg-
islation that legalizes gambling.4

      CHANGE IN THE RELATIVE POSITION OF SUBSTITUTES
      Demand for a product is affected by the cost and quality,
broadly defined, of substitute products. If the cost of a substitute
falls in relative terms, or if its ability improves to satisfy the buyer's
needs, industry growth will be adversely affected (and vice versa).
Examples are the inroads that television and radio have made on the
demand for live concerts by symphony orchestras and other perform-
ing groups; the growth in demand for magazine advertising space as
television advertising rates climb sharply and prime advertising tele-
vision time becomes increasingly scarce; and the depressing effect of
rising prices on the demand of such products as chocolate candy and
soft drinks relative to their substitutes.
      In predicting long-run change in growth, a firm must identify
all the substitute products that can meet the needs its product satis-
fies. Then technological and other trends that will affect the cost or
quality of each of these substitutes should be charted. Comparing
these with the analogous trends for the industry will yield predictions
'See Dun's, February 1977
Industry Evolution                                                              167

about future industry growth rates and identify critical ways in
which substitutes are gaining, thereby providing leads for strategic
action.'


      The effective cost and quality of many products to the buyer de-
pends on the cost, quality, and availability of complementary prod-
ucts, or products used jointly with them. For example, in many areas
of the United States mobile homes are primarily sited in mobile
home parks. In the last decade there has been a chronic shortage of
these parks, which has limited demand for mobile homes. Similarly,
demand for stereophonic records was strongly affected by the avail-
ability of stereophonic audio equipment, which in turn was affected
by the cost and reliability of this equipment.
      Just as it is important to identify substitutes for an industry's
product it is important to identify complements comprehensively.
Complementary products should be viewed broadly. For example,
credit at prevailing interest rates is a complementary product to pur-
chases of durable goods. Specialized personnel are a complemerltary
product to many technically oriented goods (e.g., computer pro-
grammers to computers and mining engineers to coal mining).
Charting trends in cost, availability, and quality of complementary
products will yield predictions about long-run growth for an indus-
try's product.


     Most very high industry growth rates are the result of increasing
penetration, or sgles to new customers rather than to repeat custom-
ers. Eventually, however, it is a fact of life that an industry must
reach essentially complete penetration. Its growth rate is then deter-
mined by replacement demand. Renewed periods of adding new cus-
tomers can sometimes be stimulated by product or marketing
changes, which broaden the scope of the customer base or stimulate
rapid replacement. However, all very high growth rates eventually
come to an end.
     Once penetration is reached the industry is selling primarily to
repeat buyers. There may well be major differences betweeen selling
to repeat and first-time buyers that have important consequences for
'Government policies can affect a product's position vis-a-vis substitutes in areas
 like safety regulation (that raises costs), subsidies, and so on.
168                                            COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

industry structure. The key to achieving industry growth when sell-
ing to repeat buyers is either stimulating rapid replacement of the
product or increasing per capita consumption. Since replacement is
determined by physical, technological, or design obsolescence as per-
ceived by the buyer, strategies to maintain growth after penetration
will hinge on affecting these factors. For example, replacement de-
mand for clothing is stimulated by annual and even seasonal style
changes. And the classic story of General Motors' ascendency over
Ford is an example of how model changes stimulated demand after
market saturation for the basic (one color: black) automobile oc-
curred.
     Whereas penetration most often means that industry demand
will level off, for durable goods, achieving penetration can lead to
an abrupt drop in industry demand. After most potential customers
have purchased the product, its durability implies that few will buy
replacements for a number of years. If industry penetration has been
rapid, this situation may translate into several very lean years for in-
dustry demand. For example, industry sales of snowmobiles, which
underwent very rapid penetration, fell from 425,000 units per year in
the peak year (1970-1971) to 125,000 to 200,000 units per year in
1976-1977.6 Recreational .vehicles underwent a similar though not
quite so dramatic decline. The relation between the growth rate after
penetration and growth before penetration will be a function of how
fast penetration has been reached and the average time before re-
placement, and this figure can be calculated.
     The decline in industry sales for durables means that manufac-
turing and distributing capacity will inherently overshoot demand.
As a result, a serious decline in profit margins usually occurs, and
some producers may exit. Another characteristic of the demand for
durable goods is that growth fueled by penetration can overshadow
cyclicality despite the fact that the product is inherently sensitive to
the business cycle. An industry approaching penetration will thus
have its first deep cycle, exacerbating the problem of overshooting.



    The five external causes of industry growth have presupposed
no change in the products offered by the industry. Product innova-
6"A Smoother Trail for Snowmobile Makers," Business Week, December 13,
 1976.
Industry Evolution                                                    169

tion by the industry, however, can allow it to serve new needs, can
improve the industry's position vis-a-vis substitutes, and can elimi-
nate or reduce the necessity of scarce or costly complementary prod-
ucts. Thus product innovation can improve an industry's circum-
stances relative to the five external causes of growth, and thereby
increase the industry's growth rate. Product innovations have played
a major part in fueling the rapid growth of motorcycles, bicycles,
and chain saws, for example.

    CHANGES IN BUYER SEGMENTS SERVED

      The second important evolutionary process is change in the
buyer segments served by the industry. For example, early electronic
calculators were sold to scientists and engineers, only later to stu-
dents and bill payers. Light aircraft were initially sold to the military
and later to private and commercial users. Related to this is the pos-
sibility that additional segmentation of existing buyer segments can
take place by creating different products (broadly defined) and mar-
keting techniques for them. A final possibility is that certain buyer
segments are no longer served,
     The significance of new buyer segments for industry evolution
is that the requirements for serving these new buyers (or eliminating
requirements for serving obsolete segments) can have a fundamental
impact on industry structure. For example, although early buyers of
the product may not have required credit and field servicing, later
buyers might. If the provision of credit and in-house service creates
potential economies of scale and raises capital requirements, then
entry barriers will rise significantly.
     A good example is provided by changes occurring in the optical
character reader business in the late 1970s. This industry and its
leader, Recognition Equipment, have been producing large, expen-
sive optical scanning machines to sort checks, credit cards, and mail.
Each machine has been custom-made, requiring special engineering
and produced on a job-shop basis. In recent years, however, small
wands for use with retail point-of-sale terminals have been devel-
oped. In addition to opening up a vast potential market, the wands
are amenable to high-volume, standardized manufacturing and will
be purchased in large quantities by individual buyers. This develop-
ment promises to change economies of scale, capital requirements,
marketing methods, and many other aspects of industry structure.
170                                            COMPETITIVESTRATEGY

     Analysis of industry evolution, then, should include an identifi-
cation of all potential new buyer segments and their characteristics.


      LEARNING BY BUYERS

      Through repeat purchasing, buyers accumulate knowledge
about a product, its use, and the characteristics of competing
brands. Products have a tendency to become more like commodities
over time as buyers become more sophisticated and purchasing tends
to be based on better information. Thus there is a natural force re-
ducing product differentiation over time in an industry. Learning
about the product may lead to increasing demands by buyers for
warranty protection, service, improved performance characteristics,
and so forth.
     An example is the aerosol packaging industry. Aerosol packag-
ing first came into use in consumer goods in the 1950s. The package,
an extremely important part of marketing many consumer goods,
often represents an important cost item to the marketing company.
In the early years of aerosol packaging, consumer marketers were
unfamiliar with how to design aerosol applications, how aerosol
containers were filled, and how best to market aerosol products. A
contract aerosol filling industry sprang up to assemble and fill aero-
sol packages, and this industry also played a major role in assisting
consumer marketing companies find new aerosol applications, solve
production problems, and so on. Over time, however, consumer
marketers learned a great deal about aerosols and began developing
their own applications and marketing programs, in some cases actu-
ally initiating integration backward. Contract fillers found it in-
creasingly difficult to differentiate their services, and their role be-
came increasingly one of supplying commodity aerosol containers.
As a result, contract fillers' profit margins were severely squeezed,
and many left the industry.
     A buyer's learning tends to progress at different rates for differ-
ent products, depending on how important the purchase is and the
buyer's technical expertise. Smart or interested (because it is an im-
portant product) buyers tend to learn faster.
     Offsetting buyer's experience is change in the product or in the
way it is sold or used, such as new features, new additives (hexa-
chlorophine), style changes, new advertising appeals, and the like.
This development nullifies some of the buyer's accumulated knowl-
170                                            COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

     Analysis of industry evolution, then, should include an identifi-
cation of all potential new buyer segments and their characteristics.


      LEARNING BY BUYERS

     Through repeat purchasing, buyers accumulate knowledge
about a product, its use, and the characteristics of competing
brands. Products have a tendency to become more like commodities
over time as buyers become more sophisticated and purchasing tends
to be based on better information. Thus there is a natural force re-
ducing product differentiation over time in an industry. Learning
about the product may lead to increasing demands by buyers for
warranty protection, service, improved performance characteristics,
and so forth.
     An example is the aerosol packaging industry. Aerosol packag-
ing first came into use in consumer goods in the 1950s. The package,
an extremely important part of marketing many consumer goods,
often represents an important cost item to the marketing company.
In the early years of aerosol packaging, consumer marketers were
unfamiliar with how to design aerosol applications, how aerosol
containers were filled, and how best to market aerosol products. A
contract aerosol filling industry sprang up to assemble and fill aero-
sol packages, and this industry also played a major role in assisting
consumer marketing companies find new aerosol applications, solve
production problems, and so on. Over time, however, consumer
marketers learned a great deal about aerosols and began developing
their own applications and marketing programs, in some cases actu-
ally initiating integration backward. Contract fillers found it in-
creasingly difficult to differentiate their services, and their role be-
came increasingly one of supplying commodity aerosol containers.
As a result, contract fillers' profit margins were severely squeezed,
and many left the industry.
     A buyer's learning tends to progress at different rates for differ-
ent products, depending on how important the purchase is and the
buyer's technical expertise. Smart or interested (because it is an im-
portant product) buyers tend to learn faster.
     Offsetting buyer's experience is change in the product or in the
way it is sold or used, such as new features, new additives (hexa-
chlorophine), style changes, new advertising appeals, and the like.
This development nullifies some of the buyer's accumulated knowl-
                                              COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

approach if its early bets about the appropriate strategy prove
wrong.


     DIFFUSION OF PROPRIETARY KNOWLEDGE

      Product and process technologies developed by particular
firms (or suppliers or other parties) tend to become less proprietary.
 Over time, a technology becomes more established and knowledge
 about it more widespread. Diffusion occurs through a variety of
 mechanisms. First, firms can learn from physical inspection of com-
 petitors' proprietary products and from information gleaned from a
 variety of sources about the size, location, organization, and other
 characteristics of competitors' operations. Suppliers, distributors,
and customers are all conduits for such information and often have
strong interest in promoting diffusion for their own purposes (e.g.,
creating another strong supplier). Second, proprietary information
is also diffused as it becomes embodied in capital goods produced by
outside suppliers. Unless firms in the industry make their own capi-
tal goods or protect the information they give to suppliers, the tech-
nology may become purchasable by competitors. Third, personnel
turnover increases the number of people who have the proprietary
information and may provide a direct conduit for the information to
other firms. Spin-off firms founded by technical personnel who have
left pioneering companies are common, as is the practice of hiring
away personnel. Finally, specialized personnel who are expert in the
technology invariably become more numerous from sources such as
consulting firms, suppliers, customers, response of university techni-
cal schools, and so on.
      In the absence of patent protection, therefore, proprietary ad-
vantages will tend to erode, as hard as it is for some firms to accept
this fact. Thus any mobility barriers built on proprietary knowledge
or specialized technology tend to erode over time, as do those caused
by shortages of qualified, specialized personnel. These changes
make it easier not only for new competitors to spring up but also for
suppliers or customers to vertically integrate into the industry.
      Returning to the previously discussed aerosol example, over
time the new aerosol technology became better and better known.
Since the production volume needed to achieve efficient scale in
aerosol packaging was relatively small, many large consumer mar-
keting companies could support their own captive filling operations.
Industry Evolution                                                    173

As knowledge about the technology and specialized personnel be-
came more common, many of these companies vertically integrated
into aerosol filling or could threaten to do so. This development left
the contract filler in the role of meeting emergency demand and in a
very adverse bargaining situation. The response of many contract
fillers was to invest in improving filling technology and to invent
new aerosol applications to restore their technological advantage.
This strategy proved to be increasingly difficult, and the contract
fillers' position weakened substantially over time.
      The rate of diffusion of proprietary technology will depend on
the particular industry. The more complex the technology, the more
specialized the required technical personnel, the greater the critical
mass of research personnel required, or the greater the economies of
scale in the research function, the slower proprietary technology will
tend to diffuse. When heavy capital requirements and economies of
scale in R&D confront imitators, proprietary technology can provide
a lasting mobility barrier.
      One key offsetting force to diffusion of proprietary technology
is patent protection, which legally inhibits diffusion. However, this
protection is unreliable in preventing diffusion since patents can be
sidestepped by similar inventions. The other offsetting force to dif-
fusion is the continual creation of new proprietary technology
through research and development. New knowledge will provide
companies with additional periods of proprietary advantages. How-
ever, continual innovation may not pay if the diffusion period is
short and buyers' loyalties to pioneering firms are not very strong.
     Two of many possible patterns of mobility barriers arising from
proprietary technology are illustrated in Figure 8-3. Economies of
scale in research were initially low in both industries since the initial,
crude, breakthrough innovations that created the product could be
made by small groups of research personnel. This situation is rela-
tively common, having occurred in such industries as minicomput-
ers, semiconductors, and others. Proprietary technology provided a
modest initial mobility barrier in such an industry, but one that was
soon eroded by diffusion. In one industry, the complex technology
led to increasing economies of scale in the research function. In the
other, there was little opportunity for continued technological inno-
vation and hence little need for further research on a significant
scale. In the first industry, then, mobility barriers from proprietary
technology quickly rose again to a level higher than the initial one.
 Eventually they tailed off as opportunities for further innovation
174                                                       COMPETITIVESTRATEGY

                                                Diffusion Process




                                                                      Industry 1
                                                Economies of Scale in
              Proprietary                       R&D Function for Complex
              Know-how

          .
              Raising
              Barrier                             -----_____             Industry 2
                                                               Time
FIGURE 8-3. Illustrative Pattern of Technological Bamers and Industry
Evolution

waned and diffusion took over. In the other industry, mobility bar-
riers from proprietary technology quickly sunk to a low level. Thus
one industry would probably have a profitable maturity phase,
whereas the other would be dependent on other sources of barriers to
prevent profit erosion to the competitive level. In the aerosol exam-
ple, the nature of the technology did not allow the secondary in-
crease in entry barriers.
     From a strategic point of view, the diffusion of knowledge
about technology means that to maintain position (1) existing know-
how and specialized personnel must be protected, which is very diffi-
cult to do in practice;' (2) technological development must occur to
maintain the lead; or (3) strategic position must be shored up in
other areas. Planning for the defense of strategic position against
technological diffusion takes on high priority if a firm's existing po-
sition is heavily dependent on technological barriers.


      ACCUMULATION OF EXPERIENCE

     In some industries, whose characteristics were identified in
Chapter 1, unit costs decline with experience in manufacturing, dis-
tributing, and marketing the product. The significance of the learn-
ing curve for industry competition is dependent upon whether firms
'Some firms have been successful through defensive innovation and patenting. If
 the firm can discover and patent the best alternative technologies as well as the one
 they use, the difficulty of the entrant is greatly increased. Such strategies have
 been followed by Bulova with the Accutron watch and Xerox with Xerography.
lndustry Evolution                                                     175

with more experience can establish significant and sustainable leads
over others. For these leads to persist, firms that are behind must be
unable to catch up by copying the methods of leaders, buying new
and more efficient machinery the leaders may have pioneered, and
so on. If firms that are behind can leapfrog, the leaders may be at a
disadvantage from bearing the expense of research, experimenta-
tion, and introduction of new methods and equipment in the first
place. The tendency for proprietary technology to diffuse works
against the learning curve to some extent.
     When experience can be kept proprietary, it can be a potent
force in industry change. If the firm is not gaining experience the
fastest, it must prepare strategically to either practice rapid imitation
or build strategic advantages in other areas besides cost. Doing the
latter requires the firm to adopt generic strategies of differentiation
or focus.


     EXPANSION (OR CONTRACTION) IN SCALE
                     d



      A growing industry is, by definition, increasing its total scale.
This growth is usually accompanied by increases in the absolute size
of the leading firms in the industry, and firms gaining market share
must be increasing in size even more rapidly. Increasing scale in in-
dustry and firm has a number of implications for industry structure.
First, it tends to widen the set of available strategies in ways that of-
ten lead to increased economies of scale and capital requirements in
the industry. For example, it may allow larger firms to substitute
capital for labor, adopt production methods subject to greater econ-
omies of scale, establish captive distribution channels or a captive
service organization and utilize national advertising. Increasing scale
also can make it feasible for an outsider to enter the industry with
substantial competitive advantages by being the first to adopt such
changes
      The way in which increasing scale operates on industry structure
is illustrated by light aircraft in the 1960s and early 1970s. In this in-
dustry, growth allowed Cessna (the industry leader) to shift its pro-
duction process from job shop to quasi-mass production. This
change resulted in a cost advantage for Cessna because it reaped
economies of scale in mass production as yet unavailable to its major
competitors. If Cessna's two leading competitors also reach the scale
'Contraction of industry scale has the reverse effects.
                                                COMPETITIVESTRATEGY

to begin more capital-intensive mass production, barriers to entry
into the industry by outsiders will increase markedly.
      Another consequence of industry growth is that strategies of
vertical integration tend to become more feasible, and increased ver-
tical integration tends to elevate barriers. Increasing industry scale
also means that suppliers to the industry are selling it larger volumes
of goods, and the industry's customers as a group are purchasing
larger quantities. To the extent that individual suppliers or buyers
are increasing their sales or purchases as well, there may be tempta-
tions for them to begin forward or backward integration into the in-
dustry. Whether or not integration actually occurs, the bargaining
power of suppliers or buyers will go up.
      There may also be a tendency for large industry scale to attract
new entrants, who can make it tougher for existing leaders, particu-
larly if the entrants are large, established firms. Many large firms
will enter a market only after it has reached a significant absolute
size (to justify the fixed costs of entry and make a material contribu-
tion to their overall sales), even though they have been probable po-
tential entrants right from the industry's birth as a result of skills or
assets they bring from their existing businesses. For example, in the
recreational vehicle industry the initial entrants were new firms
started from scratch and relatively small diversifying mobile home
producers whose production process was similar to that of making
recreational vehicles. As the industry got large enough, big farm
equipment and automotive companies began to enter. These firms
had ample resources for competing in recreational vehicles drawn
from their existing operations, but they left it to the smaller firms to
develop the market and prove that a significant market existed be-
fore they entered.


    CHANGES IN INPUT COSTS AND EXCHANGE RATES

     Every industry uses a variety of inputs to its manufacturing, dis-
tribution, and marketing process. Changes in the cost or quality of
these inputs can affect industry structure. The important classes of
input costs subject to change are the following:
       wage rates (encompassing the full costs of labor);
       material costs;
       cost of capital;
/ n d u s t / ~Evolution                                           177
           communication costs (including media);
           transportation costs.
      The most straightforward effect is in increasing or decreasing
the cost (and price) of the product, thereby affecting demand. For
example, the cost of producing movies has risen quite markedly in
recent years. This rise is squeezing independent producers relative to
well-financed movie companies, particularly since movie tax shelters
have been circumscribed by 1976 tax legislation. This development
has cut a major avenue of financing for independent producers.
     Changes in wage rates or capital costs may change the shape of
the industry's cost curve, altering economies of scale or promoting
substitution of capital for labor. Escalating labor costs in service
calls and deliveries are fundamentally affecting strategy in many in-
dustries. Changes in the cost of communication or transportation
can promote reorganization of production, which affects entry bar-
riers. Changes in communication costs may lead to use of different
cost-effective selling media (and thereby changes in the level of prod-
uct differentiation), changed distribution arrangements, and so on.
In addition, changes in transportation costs can shift geographic
market boundaries, which either increases or decreases the effective
number of competitors in the industry.
     Exchange rate fluctuations can also have a profound effect on
industry competition. The devaluation of the dollar against the yen
and many European currencies, for example, has triggered signifi-
cant shifts in position in many industries since 1971.


       PRODUCT INNOVATION

     A major source of industry structural change is technological
innovations of various types and origins. Innovation in product is
one important type. Product innovation can widen the market and
hence promote industry growth and/or it can enhance product dif-
ferentiation. Product innovation also can have indirect effects. The
process of rapid product introduction, and associated needs for high
marketing costs, may itself create mobility barriers. Innovations
may require new marketing, distribution, or manufacturing methods
that change economies of scale or other mobility barriers. Signifi-
cant product change can also nullify buyer experience and hence im-
Pact purchasing behavior.
178                                           COMPETITIVE STRATEGY
     Product innovations can come from outside or inside the indus-
try. Color television was pioneered by RCA, a leader in black and
white television. However, electronic calculators were introduced by
electronics companies and not mechanical calculator or slide rule
producers. Thus forecasting product innovations involves examining
possible external sources. Many innovations flow vertically, origi-
nated by customers and suppliers, where the industry is an important
customer or source of inputs.
     An example of the influence of product innovation on structure
is the introduction of the digital watch. Economies of scale in pro-
ducing digital watches are greater than those in producing most con-
ventional watch varieties. Competing in digital watches also requires
large capital investments and an entirely new technological base
compared to conventional watches. Thus mobility barriers and other
aspects of the structure of the watch industry are changing rapidly.

      MARKETING INNOVATION

      Like innovations in pr'oduct, those in marketing can influence
industry structure directly through increasing demand. Break-
throughs in the use of advertising media, new marketing themes or
channels, and so forth can allow reaching new consumers or reduc-
ing price sensitivity (raising product differentiation). For example,
movie companies have boosted demand by advertising movies on tele-
vision. The discovery of new channels of distribution can similarly
widen demand or raise product differentiation; innovations in mar-
keting that make it more efficient can lower the cost of the product.
     Innovations in marketing and distribution also have effects on
other elements of industry structure. New forms of marketing can be
subject to increased or decreased economies of scale and hence affect
mobility barriers. For example, the shift in marketing wine from
low-key magazine advertising to network television has raised the
mobility barriers in the wine industry. Marketing innovations can
also shift power relative to buyers, and affect the balance of fixed
and variable costs and hence the volatility of rivalry.

      PROCESS INNOVATION

     The final class of innovation that can change industry structure
is that in the manufacturing process or methods. Innovations can
Industry Evolution

 make the process more or less capital intensive, increase or decrease
 economies of scale, change the proportion of fixed costs, increase or
 decrease vertical integration, affect the process of accumulating ex-
 perience, and so on-all of which affect industry structure. Innova-
 tions that increase scale economies or extend the experience curve
 beyond the size of national markets can lead to industry globaliza-
 tion (see Chapter 13).
      An example of the way in which interacting evolutionary proc-
esses can trigger manufacturing changes is found in changes occur-
 ring in the computer service bureau business in 1977. Computer serv-
ice bureaus provide computer power and a library of programs to a
wide variety of users, including those in business, education, and fi-
nancial institutions. Traditionally service bureaus have been local or
regional organizations serving primarily smaller businesses with sim-
ple computer packages in areas like accounting and payroll. How-
ever, a substitute product, the minicomputer, has made cheap com-
puter power easily accessible to even small organizations. As a
result, forces have been set in motion which are promoting the devel-
opment of large regional and national service bureaus. First, more
sophisticated programs are being developed to differentiate the serv-
ice bureau from the minicomputer, which require substantial invest-
ments. The economies of spreading such investments over a large
number of users are promoting concentration. Second, pressure to
offer computer power at low cost is putting a premium on efficient
use of facilities. This development is adding to the impetus toward
national companies to take advantage of time zone changes to make
use of off-hours capacity. Third, computer technology continues to
increase in complexity, raising technological barriers to establish a
service bureau at least in the short run. So all these forces built up in
the evolutionary process have led to a change in the manufacturing
process of the leading service bureaus.
      Manufacturing innovations that change structure can come
from outside the industry as well as from within. Developments in
computerized machine tools and other manufacturing equipment by
equipment suppliers, for example, may lead to increased scale econ-
omies in production in an industry. The 1950s innovations by fiber-
glass producers that led to the use of fiberglass in boats greatly re-
duced the difficulty of designing and building pleasure boats. This
reduction in entry barriers triggered the entry of a large number of
new companies into the industry with disastrous consequences for
profits, many failing between 1960 and 1962 as the industry under-
                                               COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

went a shake-out. In the metal container industry, suppliers of steel
expended substantial resources to help defend steel cans against the
inroads of the aluminum can through innovations reducing the
gauge of steel and techniques for lower-cost can manufacture. All
these examples suggest that the firm must broaden its view of tech-
nological change beyond industry boundaries.


     STRUCTURAL CHANGE IN ADJACENT INDUSTRIES

      Since the structure of suppliers' and customers' industries af-
 fects their bargaining power with an industry, changes in their struc-
 ture have potentially important consequences for industry evolution.
For example, there has been substantial chain-store development in
 the retailing of clothing and hardware in the 1960s and 1970s. As the
structure of retailing has become concentrated, the retailers' bar-
gaining power with their supplying industries has increased. Apparel
makers are getting squeezed by retailers, who are ordering closer and
closer to the selling season and demanding other concessions. Manu-
facturers' marketing and promotional strategies have had to adjust,
and concentration in apparel manufacturing is forecast to increase.
The mass merchandising revolution in retailing generally has had
similar effects on many other industries (watches, small appliances,
toiletries).
      Whereas changes in the concentration or vertical integration of
adjacent industries attract the most attention, more subtle changes in
the methods of competition in the adjacent industries can often be
just as important in affecting evolution. For example, in the 1950s
and early 1960s record retailers dropped the policy of allowing con-
sumers to play records in the store. The effects of this change in the
adjacent recording industry proved to be profound. Since the con-
sumer could no longer sample records in the store, what radio sta-
tions played became critical to record sales. However, because ad-
vertising rates were becoming increasingly tied to sustained audience
size, radio stations were shifting to the "Top 40" format, that is, re-
peatedly playing only the leading songs. It became extremely diffi-
cult to get a new, unproven record aired on the radio. The change in
retailing created a powerful new element for the recording indus-
try-radio stations-which changed the strategic requirements for
success. It also forced the recording industry to purchase advertising
time for new record releases on radio stations, the only sure way to
Industry Evolution                                                   181

assure that new recordings were played, and generally increased bar-
riers into the recording industry.
      The importance of changes in the structure of adjacent indus-
tries points to the need to diagnose and prepare for structural evolu-
tion in supplying and buying industries, just as in the industry itself.


     GOVERNMENT POLICY CHANGE

      Government influences can have a significant and tangible im-
pact on industry structural change, the most direct through full-
blown regulation of such key variables as entry into the industry,
competitive practices, or profitability. For example, pending na-
tional health insurance legislation with cost-plus reimbursement will
fundamentally affect profit potential in the proprietary hospital and
clinical laboratory industries. Requirements for licensing, an inter-
mediate form of government regulation, tend to restrict entry and
thereby provide an entry barrier protecting existing firms. Changes
in government pricing regulation also can have a fundamental im-
pact on industry structure. A current example is the profound conse-
quences that have accompanied the shift from legally fixed commis-
sions to negotiated commissions in securities transactions. Fixed
commissions created a price umbrella for securities firms and shifted
competition from price to service and research. Ending fixed com-
missions has shifted competition to price and resulted in mass exit
from the industry, either through outright failure or mergers. Mobil-
ity barriers in the new environment are dramatically increased. Gov-
ernment actions can also dramatically increase or decrease the likeli-
hood of international competition (see Chapter 13).
      Less direct forms of government influence on industry structure
occur through the regulation of product quality and safety, environ-
mental quality, and tariffs or foreign investments. The effect of
many new product quality and environmental regulations, though
they surely achieve some desirable social objectives, is to raise capi-
tal requirements, elevate economies of scale through the imposition
of research and testing requirements, and otherwise worsen the posi-
tion of smaller firms in an industry and raise barriers facing new
firms.
     An example of the impact of quality regulation is in the security
guard industry. Criticism has mounted over the lack of training that
companies give their guards in the use of weapons, arrest techniques,
182                                                   COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

and so on, and legislation to require mandatory training of a speci-
fied duration is on the horizon. Although such a requirement will be
easily met by the larger companies, many smaller companies may be
severely hurt by the increased overhead and the need to compete for
higher skilled employees.


      ENTRY AND EXIT

      Entry clearly affects industry structure, particularly entry by es-
 tablished firms from other industries. Firms enter an industry be-
cause they perceive opportunities for growth and profits that exceed
the costs of entry (or of surmounting mobility barriers).' Based on
case studies of many industries, industry growth seems to be the
 most important signal to outsiders that there are future profits to be
made, even though this can often be a poor assumption. Entry also
follows particularly visible indications of future growth, such as reg-
ulatory changes, product innovations, and so on. For example, the
energy crisis and recent proposed legislation to provide federal sub-
sidy have evoked rapid entry into solar heating even though demand
for solar heating is still quite low.
      The entry into an industry (by either acquisition or internal de-
velopment) of an established firm is often a major driving force for
industry structural change.I0 Established firms from other markets
generally have skills or resources that can be applied to change com-
petition in the new industry; in fact this often provides a major moti-
vation for their entry decision. Such skills and resources are very
often different from those of existing firms, and their application in
many cases changes the industry's structure. Also, firms in other
markets may be able to perceive opportunities to change industry
structure better than existing firms because they have no ties to his-
torical strategies and may be in a position to be more aware of tech-
nological changes occurring outside the industry that can be applied
to competing in it.
      An example will serve to illustrate. In 1960, the U.S.wine in-
dustry was composed primarily of small family firms producing pre-
 9Thedecision to enter a new industry is discussed in detail in Chapter 16.
I0Entryinto the domestic market of foreign firms already in the industry elsewhere
  in the world can also have major structural repercussions: The competitive norms
  may be very different in foreign markets, and strategic approaches may be very
  different as well.
Industry Evolution                                                              183

mium wines and selling them in regional markets. There was little
advertising or promotion, few firms had national distribution, and
the competitive focus of most firms in the industry was clearly on the
production of fine wines." Profits in the industry were modest. In
the mid-1960s, however, a number of large consumer marketing
companies (e.g., Heublein, United Brands) either entered the indus-
try through internal development or purchased existing wine produc-
ers. They began investing heavily in consumer advertising and pro-
motion for both low-cost and premium brands. Since several of
these firms had national distribution through liquor stores because
they produced other alcoholic beverages, they rapidly expanded dis-
tribution for their brands nationally. Frequent introduction of new
brand names became the rule in the industry, and many new prod-
ucts were introduced at the low end of the quality spectrum, which
old-line companies had generally downplayed while they developed a
name for U.S. wines. The profitability of the industry leaders was
excellent. Thus the entry of a different type of firm into the U.S.
wine industry has caused or at least speeded up a significant structur-
al change in the industry, and one which the early family-controlled
participants in the industry had neither the skills, the resources, nor
the inclination to cause themselves.
     Exit changes industry structure by reducing the number of firms
and possibly increasing the dominance of the leading ones. Firms ex-
it because they no longer perceive the possibility of earning returns
on their investment that exceed the opportunity cost of capital. The
exit process is impeded by exit barriers (Chapter I), which worsen
the position of remaining, healthier firms and may lead to price war-
fare and other competitive outbreaks. Increases in concentration and
the ability of an industry's profitability to climb in response to in-
dustry structural shifts also will be impeded by the presence of exit
barriers.

     The evolutionary processes are a tool for predicting industry
changes. Each evolutionary process is the basis of a key strategic
question. For example, the potential impact of government regula-
tory change on an industry's structure means that a company must
ask itself, "Are there any government actions on the horizon that
may influence some element of the structure of my industry? If so,
what does the change do for my relative strategic position, and how
"The only important exception was Gallo, which as a result was to play a major role
 in the industry.
184                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

can I prepare to deal with it effectively now?" A similar question
can be formulated for each of the other evolutionary processes dis-
cussed above. The set of questions that result should be asked on a
repeated basis, perhaps even formally through the strategic planning
process.
     Furthermore, each evolutionary process identifies a number of
key strategic signals, or pieces of key strategic information, for
which the firm must constantly scan its environment. The entry of an
established firm from another industry, a key development affecting
a substitute product, and so on should cause a red light to go in the
minds of executives charged with maintaining the strategic health of
a business. This red light should trigger a chain of analysis to predict
the significance of the change for the industry and the appropriate
response.
     Finally, it is important to note that learning, experience, in-
creasing market size, and several other of the processes discussed
above will be operating even if there are no important distinct events
to signal this. The implication is that regular attention should be
given to structural changes that may be resulting from these hidden
processes.



Key Relationships in Industry Evolution

      In the context of this analysis, how do industries change? They
do not change in a piecemeal fashion, because an industry is an inter-
related system. Change in one element of an industry's structure
tends to trigger changes in other areas. For example, an innovation
in marketing might develop a new buyer segment, but serving this
new segment may trigger changes in manufacturing methods, there-
by increasing economies of scale. The firms reaping these economies
first will also be in a position to start backward integration, which
will affect power with suppliers-and so on. One industry change,
therefore, often sets off a chain reaction leading to many other
changes.
      It should be clear from the discussion in this chapter that
whereas industry evolution is always occurring in nearly every busi-
ness and requires a strategic response, there is no one way in which
industries evolve. Any single model for evolution such as the product
industry Evolution                                                       1 85

life cycle should therefore be rejected. However, there are some par-
ticularly important relationships in the evolutionary process that I
will examine in this section.'*


    WILL THE INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATE?

     It seems to be an accepted fact that industries tend to consoli-
date over time, but as a general statement, it simply is not true. In a
broad sample of 151 4-digit U.S. manufacturing industries in the
1963-1972 time period, for example, 69 increased in 4-firm concen-
tration more than 2 percentage points, whereas 52 decreased more
than 2 percentage points over the same period. The question of
whether consolidation will occur in an industry exposes perhaps the
most important interrelationship among elements of industry struc-
ture-that involving competitive rivalry, mobility barriers, and exit
barriers.

     Industry Concentration and Mobility Barriers Move Together.
If mobility barriers are high or especially if they increase, concentra-
tion almost always increases. For example, concentration has in-
creased in the U.S. wine industry. In the standard-quality segment of
the market, which represents much of the volume, the strategic
changes described earlier in this chapter have greatly increased bar-
riers to mobility (high advertising, national distribution, rapid brand
innovation, etc). As a result, the larger firms have gotten further
ahead of smaller ones, and few new firms have entered to challenge
them.

     No Concentration Takes Place if Mobility Barriers Are Low or
Falling. Where barriers are low, unsuccessful firms that exit will be
replaced by new firms. If a wave of exit has occurred because of an
economic downturn or some other general adversity, there may be a
temporary increase in industry concentration. But at the first signs
that profits and sales in the industry are picking up, new entrants
will appear. Thus a shake-out when an industry reaches maturity
does not necessarily imply long-run consolidation.
"Industry evolution has implications for the optimal timing of entry into an
 industry; they are discussed in Chapter 10.
186                                            COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

      Exit Barriers Deter Consolidation. Exit barriers keep compan-
ies operating in an industry even though they are earning subnormal
returns on investment. Even in an industry with relatively high mo-
bility barriers, the leading firms cannot count on reaping the benefits
of consolidation if high exit barriers hold unsuccessful firms in the
market.

      Long-run Profit Potential Depends on Future Structure. In
the period of very rapid growth early in the life of an industry (espe-
cially after initial product acceptance has been achieved), profit
levels are usually high. For example, growth in sales of skiing equip-
ment were in excess of 20 percent per year in the late 1960s, and
nearly all firms in the industry enjoyed strong financial results.
When growth levels off in an industry, however, there is a period of
turmoil as intensified rivalry weeds out the weaker firms. All firms
in the industry may suffer financially during this adjustment period.
Whether or not the remaining firms will enjoy above-average profit-
ability will depend on the level of mobility barriers, as well as the
other structural features of the industry. If mobility barriers are high
or have increased as the industry has matured, the remaining firms
in the industry may enjoy healthy financial results even in the new
era of slower growth. If mobility barriers are low, however, slower
growth probably means the end of above-average profits for the in-
dustry. Thus mature industries may or may not be as profitable as
they were in their developmental period.


       CHANGES IN INDUSTRY BOUNDARIES

    Structural change in an industry is often accompanied by
changes in industry boundaries. As discussed in Chapter 1, industry
boundaries are a judgmental placement of the dotted line in Figure
8-4.
      Industry evolution has a strong tendency to shift these bounda-
ries. Innovations in the industry or those involving substitutes may
effectively enlarge the industry by placing more firms into direct
competition. Reduction in transportation cost relative to timber
cost, for example, had made timber supply a world market rather
than one restricted to continents. Innovations increasing the reliabil-
ity and lowering the cost of electronic surveillance devices have put
them into effective competition with security guard services. Struc-
lndustw Evolution

                                  Potential
                                  Entrants




                    -If
                     r - - - - - - - - - -1
                      I


                     II
                                  Industry
                                competitors *4
                                             -
                                                   I
                                                   I
                                                   1
                                                   I
                                                   I
                                                         Buyers




                                     t
                              Firms Producing
                             Substitute Products

FIGURE 8-4 Industry Boundaries

tural changes making it easier for suppliers to integrate forward into
the industry may well mean that suppliers effectively become com-
petitors. Or buyers purchasing private label goods in large quantities
and dictating product design criteria may become effective competi-
tors in the manufacturing industry (Sears-Roebuck). Part of the
analysis of the strategic significance of industry evolution is clearly
an analysis of how industry boundaries may be affected.


    FIRMS CAN INFLUENCE INDUSTRY STRUCTURE

     As described briefly in Chapter 1 and highlighted here, industry
structural change can be influenced by firms' strategic behavior. If it
understands the significance of structural change for its position, the
firm can seek to influence industry change in ways favorable to it,
either through the way it reacts to strategic changes of competitors
or in the strategic changes it initiates.
     Another way a company can influence structural change is to be
very sensitive to external forces that can cause the industry to evolve.
With a head start, it is often possible to direct such forces in ways
appropriate to the firm's position. For example, the specific form of
regulatory changes can be influenced; the diffusion of innovations
coming from outside the industry can be altered by the form that li-
censing or other agreements with innovating firms take; positive ac-
tion can be initiated to improve the cost or supply of complementary
188                                          COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

products through providing direct assistance and help in forming
trade associations or in stating their case to the government; and so
on for the other important forces causing structural change. Indus-
try evolution should not be greeted as a fait accompli, to be reacted
to, but as an opportunity.
Generic Industry
Environments

Part II builds on the foundation of analytical techniques for for-
mulating competitive strategy (in Part I) to consider the more
specific analysis of strategy in important types of industry envi-
ronments. Industry environments differ most strongly in their
fundamental strategic implications along a number of key di-
mensions:
      industry concentration;
      state of industry maturity;
      exposure to international compet ition.
In Part II, I select a number of generic industry environments
based on these dimensions for in-depth consideration. In each
of these environments, the crucial aspects of industry structure,
key strategic issues, characteristic strategic alternatives, and
strategic pitfalls are identified.
      Five important generic environments are singled out for
Consideration in Part II.Chapter 9 examines competitive strategy
in fragmented industries, or industries where the level of indus-
try concentration is low. Chapters 10, 11, and 12 consider strat-
                                                              189
190                                         COMPETITIVESTRATEGY

 egy formulation in industries at fundamentally differing states of
maturity: Chapter 10 examines the emerging or new industry;
Chapter 11, the industry undergoing the difficult transition from
rapid growth to maturity; and Chapter 12, the unique problems of
the industry that is declining. Finally, Chapter 13 examines strat-
egy formulation in global industries, an increasingly common in-
dustry setting in the 1980s.
      The environments examined in Part II are all based on one
key structural dimension of the industry, and each chapter devel-
ops the implications for competitive strategy of this one dimen-
sion. Although some of the chapters examine environments that
are mutually exclusive (an industry might be emerging or declin-
ing but not both, for example), some of the industry environ-
ments may not be. For example, a global industry might also be
fragmented or be undergoing transition to maturity.
      The reader should begin by characterizing the environment
of the particular industry being studied into the framework of
Part II. In industries that fall into more than one of the environ-
ments examined, the problem of setting competitive strategy is
one of reconciling the strategic implications flowing from each
of the important aspects of the industry's structure.
Competitive Strategy In
Fragmented Industries



An important structural environment in which many firms compete
is the fragmented industry, that is, an industry in which no firm has
a significant market share and can strongly influence the industry
outcome. Usually fragmented industries are populated by a large
number of small- and medium-sized companies, many of them pri-
vately held. There is no single precise quantitative definition of a
fragmented industry, and such a definition is probably unnecessary
for purposes of discussing the strategic issues in this important envi-
ronment. The essential notion that makes these industries a unique
environment in which to compete is the absence of market leaders
with the power to shape industry events.
     Fragmented industries are found in many areas of an economy,
whether in the United States or some other country, and are com-
mon in areas such as the following:
       services;
       retailing;
       distribution;
       wood and metal fabrication;
       agricultural products;
       "creative" businesses.
192                                              COMPETITIVESTRATEGY

 Some fragmented industries, such as computer software and televi-
sion program syndication, are characterized by products or services
that are differentiated, whereas others, such as oil tanker shipping,
electronic component distribution, and fabricated aluminum prod-
ucts, involve essentially undifferentiated products. Fragmented in-
dustries also vary greatly in their technological sophistication, rang-
ing from high technology businesses like solar heating to garbage
collection and liquor retailing. Exhibit 9-1 lists the U.S. manufactur-
ing industries in which the share of the industry accounted for by the
top four firms was 40 percent or less in 1972. Although this list
leaves out distribution, services, and many other industries that do
not fall into the manufacturing sector or have not yet emerged as
census industries, it does provide an illustration of how broad the ar-
ray of fragmented businesses is.
     This chapter will examine the special problems of formulating
competitive strategy in fragmented industries, seen as one important
generic industry environment. As with the other chapters in Part 11,
this chapter is not intended as an exhaustive primer for competing in
any particular fragmented industry. The full range of analytical
techniques and concepts presented elsewhere in this book should be
combined with the concepts in this chapter to draw conclusions
about competitive strategy in any particular industry.
     The chapter is divided into a number of sections. First, I will
consider the reasons why industries are fragmented, because under-
standing this is essential to strategy formulation. Second, I will

E X H I B I T 9-1. Illustrative Fragmented Industries in U.S.
Manufacturing, 1972
                                           Total             Total
                                       Market Share      Market Share
             Industry                 of Top 4 Firms    of Top 8 Firms
              (4-digit)                    (Ole)              ("0)
Meat-packing                                22                 37
Sausages and other prepared
   meats
Poultry dressing
Poultry and egg processing
Condensed and evaporated milk
Ice cream and frozen desserts
Fluid milk
Canned fruits and vegetables
Competitive Strategy in Fragmented Industries

E X H I B I T 9-1. Continued
                                              Total            Total
                                         Market Share     Market Share
              Industry                   of Top 4 Firms   of Top 8 Firms
               (4-digit)                       f0/0)            f0/0)
Dehydrated fruits, vegetables,
  soups
Frozen fruits and vegetables
Flour and other grain mill
  products
Bread, cake, and related products
Confectionary products
Animal and marine fats and oils
Fresh and frozen packaged fish
Narrow fabric mills
Knit outerwear mills
Finishing plants, cotton
Tufted carpets and rugs
Yarn mills, except wool
Throwing and winding mills
Lace goods
Paddingsand upholstery filling
Cordage and twine
Men's and boys' suits and coats
Men's and boys' dress shirts and
  nightwear
Men's and boys' neckwear
Men's and boys' separate trousers
Women's and misses' blouses
  and waists
Women's and misses' dresses
Women's and misses' suits and
  coats
Women's and children's
  underwear
Children's dresses and blouses
Children's coats and suits
Fur goods
Robes and dressing gowns
Waterproof outer garments
Leather and sheep-lined clothing
Apparel be1ts
Curtains and draperies
Canvas and related products
Sawmills and planing mills,
  general
194                                           COMPETITIVESTRATEGY

E X H lB l T 9-1. Continued
                                                                  -
                                         Total            Total
                                    Market Share     Market Share
              Industry              of Top 4 Firms   of Top 8 Firms
               (4-digit)
Wood kitchen cabinets                    12               19
Mobile homes                             26               37
Prefabricated wood buildings             33               40
Upholstered household furniture          14               23
Metal household furniture                13               24
Mattresses and bedsprings                24               31
Wood office furniture                    25               38
Folding paperboard boxes                 23               35
Corrugated and solid fiber boxes         18               32
Periodicals                              26               38
Book publishing                          19               31
Book printing                            24               36
Commercial printing, letterpress         14               19
Commercial printing, lithographic         4                8
Typesetting                               5                8
Photoengraving                           13               19
Paints and allied products               22               34
Fertilizers, mixing only                 24               38
Adhesives and sealants                   19               31
Paving mixtures and blocks               15               23
Lubricating oils and greases             31               44
Leather tanning and finishing            17               28
Leather gloves and mittens               35               50
Women's handbags and purses              14               23
Cement, hydraulic                        26               46
Brick and structural clay tile           17               26
Concrete blocks and bricks                5                8
Ready-mixedconcrete                       6               10
Steel wire and related products          18               30
Steel pipe and tubes                     23               40
Aluminum foundries                       23               30
Brass, bronze, and copper
  foundries                              20
Plumbing fittings and brass goods        26
Heating equipment, except
  electric                               22
Fabricated structural metal              10
Metal doors, sash, and trim              12
Fabricated platework (boiler
  shops)                                 29
Sheet metalwork                           9
Competitive Strategy in FragmentedIndustries                           195

E X H I B I T 9.1.   Continued
                                             Total              Total
                                        Market Share       Market Share
              Industry                  of Top 4 Firms     of Top 8 Firms
               (4-digit)                      (O/o)              (%)
Conveyors and conveying
   equipment
Machine tools, metal forming
   types
Special dies, tools, jigs, and
   fixtures
Architectural metalwork
Screw machine products
Bolts, nuts, rivets, and washers
Iron and steel forgings
Plating and polishing
Metal coating and allied services
Valves and pipe fittings
Wire springs
Fabricated pipe and fittings
Machine tool accessories
Food products machinery
Textile machinery
Paper industries machinery
Pumps and pumping equipment
Blowers and fans
Industrial furnaces and ovens
Radio and TV communication
   equipment
Truck and bus bodies
Boat building and repairing
Engineering and scientific
   instruments
Jewelry, precious metal
Dolls
Games, toys, and children's
   vehicles
Sporting and athletic goods,
   N.E.C.
Costume jewelry
Artificial flowers
Buttons                                        31                 47
Signs and advertising displays                  6                 10
Burial caskets                                 25                 34
Source: U.S. Bureau of the Census, 1972 Census of Manufactures, "Concentra-
tion Ratios in Manufacturing,"Table 5.
196                                            COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

discuss some approaches to stimulating structural change that can
overcome industry fragmentation. Third, where overcoming frag-
mentation is unworkable, I will examine some of the alternatives for
coping with a fragmented structure. Related to this discussion, some
traps companies fall into in competing in fragmented industries will
be identified. Finally, 1 will present a basic analytical framework for
the formulation of competitive strategy in fragmented industries,
drawing on the earlier sections of this chapter.


What Makes an Industry Fragmented?

      Industries are fragmented for a wide variety of reasons, with
greatly differing implications for competing in them. Some indus-
tries are fragmented for historical reasons-because of the resources
or abilities of the firms historically'in them-and there is no funda-
mental economic basis for fragmentation. However, in many indus-
tries there are underlying economic causes, and the principal ones
seem to be as follows:

     Low Overall Entry Barriers. Nearly all fragmented industries
have low overall entry barriers. Otherwise they could not be popu-
lated by so many small firms. However, although a prerequisite to
fragmentation, low entry barriers are usually not sufficient to ex-
plain it. Fragmentation is nearly always accompanied by one or
more of the other causes discussed below.
     Absence of Economies of Scale or Experience Curve. Most
fragmented industries are characterized by the absence of significant
scale economies or learning curves in any major aspect of the busi-
ness, whether it be manufacturing, marketing, distribution, or re-
search. Many fragmented industries have manufacturing processes
characterized by few if any economies of scale or experience cost de-
clines, because the process is a simple fabrication or assembly opera-
tion (fiberglass and polyurethane molding), is a straightforward
warehousing operation (electronic component distribution), has an
inherently high labor content (security guards), has a high personal
service content, or is intrinsically hard to mechanize or routinize. In
an industry like lobster fishing, for example, the unit of production
is the individual boat. Having multiple boats does little to lower fish-
ing costs because all boats are essentially fishing in the same waters
Competitive Strategy in Fragmented Industries                         197

with the same chance of a good catch. Thus there are many, many
small operators with roughly equal costs. Until recently, mushroom
farming has been similarly resistant to cost savings through scale or
learning. Finicky mushrooms have been grown in caves by many
small operators who know the "black art" required. Recently this
situation has started to change, however, as will be discussed fur-
ther.
      High Transportation Costs. High transportation costs limit
the size of an efficient plant or production location despite the pres-
ence of economies of scale. Transportation costs balanced against
economies of scale determine the radius a plant can economically
service. Transportation costs are high in such industries as cement,
fluid milk, and highly caustic chemicals. They are effectively high in
many service industries because the service is "produced" at the cus-
tomer's premises or the customer must come to where the service is
produced.
      High Inventory Costs or Erratic Sales Fluctuations. Although
there may be intrinsic economies of scale in the production process,
they may not be reaped if inventory carrying costs are high and sales
fluctuate. Here production has to be built up and down, which
works against the construction of large-scale, capital-intensive facil-
ities and operating them continuously. Similarly, if sales are very er-
ratic and fluctuate over a wide range, then the firm with large-scale
facilities may not have advantages over the smaller, more nimble
firm, even if the large firm's production operations are more effi-
cient in a fully loaded state. Small-scale, less specialized facilities or
distribution systems are usually more flexible in absorbing output
shifts than large, more specialized ones, even though they may have
higher operating costs at a steady operating rate.
      No Advantages of Size in Dealing with Buyers or Suppliers.
The structure of the buyer groups and supplier industries is such that
a firm gains no significant bargaining power in dealing with these
adjacent businesses from being large. Buyers, for example, might be
so large that even a large firm in the industry would only be
marginally better off in bargaining with them than a smaller firm.
Sometimes powerful buyers or suppliers will be powerful enough to
actually keep companies in the industry small, through intentionally
spreading their business or encouraging entry.
      Diseconomies of Scale in Some Important Aspect.
Diseconomies of scale can stem from a variety of factors. Rapid
product changes or style changes demand quick response and intense
                                                           COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

coordination among functions. Where frequent new product intro-
ductions and style changes are essential to competition, allowing
only short lead times, a large firm may be less efficient than a
smaller one-which seems to be true in women's clothing and other
industries in which style plays a major role in competition.
      If maintaining a low overhead is crucial to success, this factor
can favor the small firm under the iron hand of a n owner-manager,
unencumbered by pension plans and other corporate trappings and
less subject to scrutiny by government regulators than the larger
firm.
      A highly diverse product line requiring customization to indi-
vidual users requires a great deal of user-manufacturer interface on
small volumes of product and can favor the small firm over the
larger one. The business forms industry may be an example of one in
which such product diversity has led to fragmentation. The top two
North American business form producers hold only about a 35 per-
cent share of the market.
      Although there are exceptions, if heavy creative content is re-
quired, it is often difficult to maintain the productivity of creative
personnel in a very large company. One sees no dominant firms in
industries such as advertising and interior design.
      If close local control and supervision of operations is essential
to success the small firm may have a n edge. In some industries, par-
 ticularly services like nightclubs and eating places, a n intense
amount of close, personal supervision seems to be required. Absen-
 tee management works less effectively in such businesses, as a gen-
eral rule, than a n owner-manager who maintains close control over a
 relatively small operation. '
      Smaller firms are often more efficient where personal service is
the key to the business. The quality of personal service and the cus-
 tomer's perception that individualized, responsive service is being
 provided often seem to decline with the size of the firm once a thres-
hold is reached. This factor seems to lead to fragmentation in such
industries as beauty care and consulting.
      Where a local image and local contacts often are keys to the
busine~sthe large firm can be at a disadvantage. In some industries
like aluminum fabricating, building supply, and many distribution
'A related situation is one in which the business requires long or unusual hours,
 such as agricultural supply dealers selling a large percentage of the year's volume
 of products like fertilizer and seed in a matter of a few frenetic weeks. It is difficult
 to get anyone but an owner-manager to make the required sacrifices.
Competitive Strategy in Fragmented Industries                       199

businesses, a local presence is essential to success. Intense business
development, contact building, and sales effort on a local level are
necessary to compete. In such industries a local or regional firm can
often outperform a larger firm provided it faces no significant cost
disadvantages.

     Diverse Market Needs. In some industries buyers' tastes are
fragmented, with different buyers each desiring special varieties of a
product and willing (and able) to pay a premium for it rather than
accept a more standardized version. Thus the demand for any partic-
ular product variety is small, and adequate volume is not present to
support production, distribution, or marketing strategies that would
yield advantages to the large firm. Sometimes fragmented buyers'
tastes stem from regional or local differences in market needs, for
example, in the fire engine industry. Every local fire department
wants its own customized fire engine with many expensive bells,
whistles, and other options. Thus nearly every fire engine sold is
unique. Production is job shop and almost purely assembly, and
there are literally dozens of fire engine manufacturers, none of
whom has a major market share.

     High Product Differentiation, Particularly if Based on Image.
If product differentiation is very high and based on image, it can
place limits on a firm's size and provide an umbrella that allows inef-
ficient firms to survive. Large size may be inconsistent with an image
of exclusivity or with the buyer's desire to have a brand all his or her
own. Closely related to this situation is one in which key suppliers to
the industry value exclusivity or a particular image in the channel for
their products or services. Performing artists, for example, may pre-
fer dealing with a small booking agency or record label that carries
the image they desire to cultivate.

     Exit Barriers. If there are exit barriers, marginal firms will
tend to stay in the industry and thereby hold back consolidation.
Aside from economic exit barriers, managerial exit barriers appear
to be common in fragmented industries. There may be competitors
with goals that are not necessarily profit-oriented. Certain busi-
nesses may have a romantic appeal or excitement that attracts com-
petitors who want to be in the industry despite low or even nonexist-
ent profitability. This factor seems to be common in such industries
as fishing and talent agencies.
200                                            COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

     Local Regulation. Local regulation, by forcing the firm to
comply with standards that may be particularistic, or to be attuned to
a local political scene, can be a major source of fragmentation in an
industry, even where the other conditions do not hold. Local regula-
tion has probably been a contributing factor to fragmentation in in-
dustries like liquor retailing and personal services such as dry clean-
ing and fitting eyeglasses.

     Government Prohibition of Concentration. Legal restrictions
prohibit consolidation in industries such as electric power and televi-
sion and radio stations, and McFadden Act restrictions on branch
banking across state lines are impeding consolidation in electronic
funds transfer systems.

     Newness. An industry can be fragmented because it is new and
no firm or firms have yet developed the skills and resources to com-
mand a significant market share, even though there are no other im-
pediments to consolidation. Solar heating and fiber optics may well
have been in this state in 1979.

     It takes the presence of only one of these characteristics to block
the consolidation of an industry. If none of them are present in a
fragmented industry, then this is an important conclusion, as will be
discussed below.



Overcoming Fragmentation

      Overcoming fragmentation can be a very significant strategic
opportunity. The payoff to consolidating a fragmented industry can
be high because the costs of entry into it are by definition low, and
there tend to be small and relatively weak competitors who offer lit-
tle threat of retaliation.
      I have stressed earlier in this book that an industry must be
viewed as an interrelated system, and this fact applies to fragmented
industries as well. An industry can be fragmented because of only
one of the factors listed in the previous section. If this fundamental
block to consolidation can be somehow overcome, this often triggers
a process by which the entire structure of the industry changes.
Competitive Strategy in Fragmented Industries                      201

     The beef cattle industry provides a good example of how a frag-
mented industry can change in structure. The industry has historical-
ly been characterized by a large number of small ranchers grazing
cattle on rangelands and transporting them to a meat-packer for
processing. Raising cattle has traditionally involved few economies
of scale; if anything, there could well be diseconomies of control-
ling a very large herd and moving it from area to area. However,
technological developments have led to the wider use of the feedlot
as an alternative process for fattening cattle. Under carefully con-
trolled conditions, the feedlot has proven to be a far cheaper way to
put weight on animals. Constructing feedlots requires large capital
outlays, though, and there appear to be significant economies of scale
in their operation. As a result, some large beef growers, such as Iowa
Beef and Monfort, are emerging and the industry is concentrating.
These large growers are beginning to be large enough to backward
integrate into processing of feeds and to forward integrate into meat
processing and distribution. The latter has led to the development of
brand names. In this industry the fundamental cause of fragmenta-
tion was the production technology utilized for fattening cattle.
Once this impediment to consolidation was removed, a process of
structural change was triggered which has encompassed many ele-
ments of industry structure going far beyond feedlots alone.


     COMMON APPROACHES TO CONSOLIDATION

     Overcoming fragmentation is predicated on changes that unlock
the fundamental economic factors leading to the fragmented struc-
ture. Some common approaches to overcoming fragmentation are as
follows:

     Create Economies of Scale or Experience Curve. As in the
beef cattle industry, if technological change leads to economies of
scale or a significant experience curve, then consolidation can occur.
Economies of scale created in one part of the business can sometimes
outweigh diseconomies in another.
     In manufacturing, innovations leading to mechanization and
greater capital intensity have led to consolidation in the industry
supplying laboratory animals for medical research and in the mush-
room farming industry mentioned earlier in this chapter. In labora-
tory animals, Charles River Breeding Laboratories has pioneered the
202                                           COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

use of large, costly breeding facilities where sanitary conditions and
all aspects of the animals' environment and diet are carefully con.
trolled. Such facilities yield a superior animal for research and also
unlock the fundamental cause of fragmentation in the industry. In
mushroom farming, a few large companies have entered the industry
and pioneered sophisticated processes for controlled mushroom
growth by using conveyors, climate controls, and other devices that
reduce labor costs and boost yields. These processes involve signifi-
cant economies of scale, capital outlays, and technological sophisti-
cation and have provided a basis for consolidation to occur in the in-
dustry.
     Innovations that create economies of scale in marketing can
also lead to industry consolidation. For example, the widespread
adoption of network television as the primary means of marketing
toys has been accompanied by significant industry consolidation.
The emergence of the exclusive, full-line dealer offering financing
and service has brought about consolidation among earthmoving
equipment manufacturers, with Caterpillar Tractor the major bene-
ficiary.
     The same basic arguments apply to creating scale economies in
other functions, such as in distribution, service, and elsewhere.

      Standardize Diverse Market Needs. Product or marketing in-
novations can standardize heretofore diverse market needs. For ex-
ample, the creation of a new product might coalesce buyers' tastes; a
design change might dramatically lower the cost of a standardized
variety, leading buyers to judge the standardized product a better
value than the expensive, custom variety. Modularizing a product
might allow components to be produced in large volumes and there-
by reap economies of scale or experience cost declines while main-
taining the heterogeneity of final products. The potential for such
innovations is clearly limited by the underlying economic character-
istics of the industry, but in many industries the limiting factor to
consolidation has seemed to be ingenuity and creativity in finding
ways to deal with the causes of fragmentation.

     Neutralize or Split Off Aspects Most Responsible for Fragmen-
tation. Sometimes the causes of industry fragmentation are cen-
tered in one or two areas, such as diseconomies of scale in production
or fragmented buyer tastes. One strategy for overcoming fragmenta-
tion is to somehow separate those aspects from the rest of the busi-
Competitive Strategy in Fragmented Industries                      203

ness. Two striking examples of this are campgrounds and fast food.
~ 0 t hthese businesses rely on the need for tight local control and
maintaining good service. They must also intrinsically consist of
small individual locations, because any potential economies of scale
in campground or fast-food facilities are offset by the need to locate
near customers, or near the many major highways and vacation
spots. Both the campground and fast-food industries have been his-
torically fragmented, with thousands and thousands of small,
owner-managed operations. Yet there are significant economies of
scale in marketing and purchasing in both these businesses, particu-
larly if national saturation can be achieved which allows the use of
national advertising media. In both industries, fragmentation was
overcome by franchising the individual locations to owner-manag-
ers, who operated under the mantle of a national organization
which marketed the brand name and provided central purchasing
and other services. Close control and maintenance of service are in-
sured, as well as the benefits of economies of scale. This concept has
spawned such giants as KOA in campgrounds and McDonald's, Piz-
za Hut, and many others in fast food. Another industry in which
franchising is unlocking fragmentation today is real estate broker-
age. Century 21 is rapidly expanding share in this highly fragmented
industry by franchising local firms, allowing them to operate auton-
omously with their local names but doing so under the umbrella of
the nationally advertised Century 21 name.
     When the causes of fragmentation center around the production
or service delivery process, as in the examples above, overcoming
fragmentation requires decoupling production from the rest of the
business. If buyer segments are numerous or where extreme product
differentiation leads to preferences for exclusivity, it may be possi-
ble-through the use of multiple, scrupulously disassociated brand
names and styles of packaging-to overcome the constraints placed
on market share. Another case is that in which an artist or other cus-
tomer or supplier wants to deal with a smaller, more personalized or-
ganization with a particular image or reputation. In the record in-
dustry, this desire has been dealt with by the use of multiple in-house
labels and contracts with associated labels, all of which use the same
record pressing, marketing, promotion, and distribution organiza-
tion. Each label is set up independently and strives to create the per-
sonal touch for its artists. Yet the overall market share of the parent
company can be significant, as in the case of CBS and Warner
Brothers, each with about 20 percent of the market.
204                                              COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

     This basic approach to overcoming fragmentation recognizes
that the root cause of the fragmentation cannot be altered. Rather,
the strategy is to neutralize the parts of the business subject to frag-
mentation to allow advantages of share in other aspects to come into
play.

     Make Acquisitions for a Critical Mass. In some industries
there may ultimately be some advantages to holding a significant
share, but it is extremely difficult to build share incrementally be-
cause of the causes of fragmentation. For example, if local contacts
are important in selling, it is difficult to invade the territory of other
firms in order to expand. But if the firm can develop a threshold
share, it can begin to reap any significant advantages of scale. In
cases such as this, a strategy of making many acquisitions of local
companies can be successful, provided the acquisitions can be inte-
grated and managed.

     Recognize Industry Trends Early. Sometimes industries con-
solidate naturally as they mature, particularly if the primary source
of fragmentation was the newness of the industry; or exogenous in-
dustry trends can lead to consolidation by altering the causes of frag-
mentation. For example, computer service bureaus are facing in-
creasing competition from minicomputers and microcomputers.
This new technology means that even the small- and medium-sized
firm can afford to have its own computer. Thus, service bureaus in-
creasingly have had to service the large, multilocation company to
continue their growth and/or to offer sophisticated programming
and other services in addition to just computer time. This develop-
ment has increased the economies of scale in the service bureau in-
dustry and is leading to consolidation.
     In the service bureau example, the threat of substitute products
triggered consolidation by shifting buyers' needs, and thereby stimu-
lating changes in service that were increasingly subject to economies
of scale. In other industries, changes in buyers' tastes, changes in the
structure of distribution channels, and innumerable other industry
trends may operate, directly or indirectly, on the causes of fragmen-
tation. Government or regulatory changes can force consolidation
by raising standards in the product or manufacturing process be-
yond the reach of small firms through the creation of economies of
scale. Recognizing the ultimate effect of such trends, and positioning
competitive Strategy in Fragmented Industries                       205

the company to take advantage of them, can be an important way of
overcoming fragmentation.


     INDUSTRIES THAT ARE "STUCK"

     So far I have concentrated on industries whose fragmentation is
rooted in industry economics and on ways of overcoming fragmen-
tation that address these root causes. Yet a critical point to recognize
for purposes of strategy is that many industries are fragmented, not
for fundamental economic reasons, but because they are "stuck" in
a fragmented state. Industries become stuck for a number of
reasons.

      Existing Firms Lack Resources or Skills. Sometimes the steps
required to overcome fragmentation are evident, but existing firms
lack the resources to make the necessary strategic investments. For
example, there may be potential economies of scale in production,
but firms lack the capital or expertise to construct large-scale facili-
ties or to make required investments in vertical integration. Firms
may also lack the resources or skills to develop in-house distribution
channels, in-house service organizations, specialized logistical facili-
ties, or consumer brand franchises that would promote industry con-
solidation.

     Existing Firms Are Myopic or Complacent. Even though firms
have the resources to promote industry consolidation, they may be
emotionally tied to traditional industry practices that support the
fragmented structure or otherwise unable to perceive opportunities
for change. This fact, possibly combined with the lack of resources,
may partly explain the historical fragmentation of the U.S. wine in-
dustry. Producers had long been production-oriented and had made
apparently little effort to develop national distribution or consumer
brand recognition. A number of large consumer goods and liquor
companies bought their way into the industry in the mid-1960s and
reversed this orientation.

     Lack of Attention by Outside Firms. If the previous two con-
ditions are present, some industries remain fragmented for long peri-
ods of time, despite presenting ripe targets for consolidation, be-
206                                            COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

cause of lack of attention by outside firms. No outsiders perceive the
opportunity to infuse resources and a fresh perspective into the in-
dustry to promote consolidation. Industries that escape attention
(and offer ripe prospects for entry) tend to be those off the beaten
track (manufacture of labels, mushroom farming) or those lacking
glamour or any apparent excitement (manufacture of air filters and
grease filters). They may also be too new or too small to be of inter-
est to major established firms which have the resources to overcome
fragmentation.
     If a firm can spot an industry in which the fragmented structure
does not reflect the underlying economics of competition, this can
provide a most significant strategic opportunity. A company can en-
ter such an industry cheaply because of its initial structure. Since
there are no underlying economic causes of fragmentation, none of
the investment costs or risks of innovations to change underlying
economic structure need be borne.


Coping with Fragmentation

     In many situations, industry fragmentation is indeed the result
of underlying industry economics that cannot be overcome. Frag-
mented industries are characterized not only by many competitors
but also by a generally weak bargaining position with suppliers and
buyers. Marginal profitability can be the result. In such an environ-
ment, strategic positioning is of particularly crucial significance. The
strategic challenge is to cope with fragmentation by becoming one of
the most successful firms, although able to garner only a modest
market share.
     Since every industry is ultimately different, there is no general-
ized method for competing most effectively in a fragmented indus-
try. However, there are a number of possible strategic alternatives
for coping with a fragmented structure that should be considered
when examining any particular situation. These are specific ap-
proaches to pursuing the low cost, differentiate, or focus generic
strategies described in Chapter 2 in the peculiar environment of the
fragmented industry. Each is directed at either better matching the
firm's strategic posture to the particular nature of competition in
fragmented industries or neutralizing the intense competitive forces
that are usually the rule in these industries.
Competitive Strategy in Fragmented Industries                         207

      Tightly Managed Decentralization. Since fragmented indus-
tries often are characterized by the need for intense coordination,
local management orientation, high personal service, and close con-
trol, an important alternative for competition is tightly managed de-
centralization. Rather than increasing the scale of operations at one
or a few locations, this strategy involves deliberately keeping indi-
vidual operations small and as autonomous as possible. This ap-
proach is supported by tight central control and performance-
oriented compensation for local managers. This strategy is being
practiced with great success by Indal in the aluminum extrusion and
fabricating industry in Canada, by several growing chains of small-
and medium-sized newspapers that have sprung up in the United
States over the past decade, and by the highly successful Dillon
Companies in the food retailing industry, just to name a few exam-
ples. Dillon, for instance, hassa strategy of acquiring a group of
small, regional grocery chains and keeping them autonomous, each
with its own name, buying group, and so on. This system is rein-
forced with central control and a strong promotion-from-within pol-
icy. The strategy has avoided the homogenizing of individual units
and resulting insensitivity to local conditions that plague some food
chains, and as a by-product, has kept unionization low.
     The essential notion of this type of strategy is to recognize and
cater to the causes of fragmentation but to add a degree of profes-
sionalism to the manner in which local managers operate.

     "Formula" Facilities. Another alternative, related to the pre-
vious one, is to view the key strategic variable in the business as the
building of efficient, low-cost facilities at multiple locations. This
strategy involves designing a standard facility, whether it be a plant
or a service establishment, and polishing to a science the process of
constructing and putting the facility into operation at minimum cost.
The firm thereby lowers its investment relative to competitors
and/or provides a more attractive or efficient location from which
to do business. Some of the most successful mobile home producers,
such as Fleetwood, Inc., have followed this strategy.

      Increased Value Added. Many fragmented industries produce
products or services that are commodities or otherwise difficult to
differentiate; many distribution businesses, for example, stock simi-
lar if not identical product lines to their competitors'. In cases such as
208                                           COMPETITIVESTRATEGY

these, an effective strategy may be to increase the value added of the
business by providing more service with sale, by engaging in some
final fabrication of the product (like cutting to size or punching
holes), or by doing subassembly or assembly of components before
they are sold to the customer. Enhanced product differentiation, and
thereby higher margins, that cannot be achieved on the basic product
or service may be achievable through such activities. This concept
has been successfully implemented by a number of metal distributors
who have positioned themselves as "metal service centers," engag-
ing in simple fabrication operations and providing a great deal of ad-
vice to the customer in what had historically been a purely pass-
through business. Some electronic component distributors have
similarly been successful in subassembly of connectors from individ-
ual components or assembling kits.
     Value added can also sometimes be enhanced by forward inte-
gration from manufacturing into distribution or retailing. This step
may neutralize buyers' power or allow greater product differentia-
tion by better controlling the conditions of sale.

      Specialization by Product Type or Product Segment. When
industry fragmentation results from or is accompanied by the pres-
ence of numerous items in the product line, an effective strategy for
achieving above-average results can be to specialize on a tightly con-
strained group of products. This approach is one variant of the focus
strategy described in Chapter 2. It can allow the firm to achieve
some bargaining power with suppliers by developing a significant
volume of their products. It may also allow the enhancement of
product differentiation with the customer as a result of the special-
ist's perceived expertise and image in the particular product area.
The focused strategy allows the firm to be better informed about the
product area and potentially to invest in its ability to educate
customers and to provide services relating to the particular area. The
cost of such a strategy of specialization may be some limitation in
the growth prospects for the firm.
      An intriguing example of product specialization coupled with
increasing value added is provided by Ethan Allen, a highly success-
ful participant in the fragmented U.S. furniture industry. Ethan Al-
len has specialized in early American furniture offering a line that
allows the consumer to draw together individual items into profes-
sionally designed rooms:
Competitive Strategy in Fragmented Industries                               209

     We are selling what you can do with the product, not the product
     itself. We offer the middle-class a service that only the rich could
     aff0rd.I
     The integrated concept allows Ethan Allen to charge up to a 20
percent premium for its products, which is plowed into heavy televi-
sion advertising. The company also sells only through a unique net-
work of independent, exclusive retail outlets, which allows it to en-
hance differentiation and avoid the hard bargaining of department
stores and discount houses. Although the firm's market share is only
about 3 percent, its profitability is well above average.

     Specialization by Customer Type. If competition is intense be-
cause of a fragmented structure, a firm can potentially benefit by
specialization on a particular category of customer in the hdustry-
perhaps the customers with the least bargaining leverage because
they purchase small annual volumes or because they are small in ab-
solute size. Or the firm might specialize in the customers who are the
least price sensitive3 or who most need the value added the firm can
provide along with the basic product or service. Like product spe-
cialization, customer specialization may limit growth prospects for
the firm in return for offering higher profitability.

      Specialization by Type of Order. Regardless of the customer,
the firm can specialize in a particular type of order to cope with in-
tense competitive pressure in a fragmented industry. One approach
is to service only small orders for which the customer wants immedi-
ate delivery and is less price sensitive. Or the firm can service only
custom orders to take advantage of less price sensitivity or to build
switching costs. Once again, the cost of such specialization may be
some limitation in volume.

     A Focused Geographic Area. Even though a significant indus-
try-wide share is out of reach or there are no national economies of
scale (and perhaps even diseconomies), there may be substantial
economies in blanketing a given geographic area by concentrating
facilities, marketing attention, and sales activity-. This policy can
economize on the use of the sales force, allow more efficient adver-
'"Nat Ancell's Unique Selling Proposition," Forbes, December 25, 1978.
'See Chapters 1 and 6 for a discussion of the characteristics that affect the
 bargaining power of buyers and their price sensitivity.
                                               COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

tising, allow a single distribution center, and so on. Having bits and
pieces of business in a number of areas, on the other hand, accentu-
ates the problems of competing in a fragmented industry. The blan-
keting strategy has been quite effective for food stores, which re-
main a fragmented industry despite the presence of some large
national chains.

      Bare Bones/No Frills. Given the intensity of competition and
low margins in many fragmented industries, a simple but powerful              1
strategic alternative can be intense attention to maintaining a bare
bones/no frills competitive posture-that is, low overhead, low-
skilled employees, tight cost control, and attention to detail. This
policy places the firm in the best position to compete on price and
still make an abovelaverage return.

     Backward Integration. Although the causes of fragmentation
can preclude a large share of the market, selective backward integra-
tion may lower costs and put pressure on competitors who cannot af-
ford such integration. Of course, the decision to integrate should be
made only after a complete analysis, which is discussed in Chap-
ter 14.


Potential Strategic Traps

     The unique structural environment of the fragmented industry         1
offers a number of characteristic strategic traps. Some common
traps, which should serve as red flags in the analysis of strategic al-
ternatives in any particular fragmented industry, are as follows:

      Seeking Dominance. The underlying structure of a frag-
mented industry makes seeking dominance futile unless that struc-
ture can be fundamentally changed. Barring this, a company trying
to gain a dominant share of a fragmented industry is usually doomed
to failure. The underlying economic causes of fragmentation usually
insure that the firm exposes itself to inefficiencies, loss of product
differentiation, and whims of suppliers and customers as it increases
its share. Trying to be all things to all people generally maximizes
vulnerability to the competitive forces in a fragmented industry, al-
though it may be an extremely successful strategy in other industries
Competitive Strategy in Fragmented Industries                                211

in which there are cost advantages to volume production and other
economies.
     An example of a company that learned this lesson the hard way
was Prelude Corporation, which had the stated goal of being the
"General Motors of the lobster i n d ~ s t r y . "It
                                                  ~ built a large fleet of
expensive, high-technology lobster boats; established in-house main-
tenance and docking facilities; and vertically integrated into trucking
and restaurants. Unfortunately, the economics were such that its
vessels had no significant advantage in catching lobsters over other
fishermen, and its high overhead structure and heavy fixed costs
maximized the company's vulnerability to the inherent fluctuations
of the catch in the industry. The high fixed costs also led to under-
cutting on price by small fishermen who did not measure their busi-
nesses against corporate ROI targets but seemed satisfied with a
much lower return. The result was a financial crisis and eventual ces-
sation of operations. Nothing in the Prelude strategy addressed the
causes of fragmentation in its industry, and hence its strategy of
dominance was futile.

     Lack of Strategic Discipline. Extreme strategic discipline is
nearly always required for effective competition in fragmented in-
dustries. Unless the cause of fragmentation can be overcome, the
competitive structure of fragmented industries generally requires
focus or specialization on some tight strategic concept like those ar-
ticulated in the previous section. Implementing these may well re-
quire the courage to turn away some business, as well as to go
against the conventional wisdom of how things are done in the busi-
ness generally. An undisciplined or opportunistic strategy may work
in the short run, but it usually maximizes the exposure of the firm to
the intense competitive forces common in fragmented industries in
the longer run.

     Overcentralization. The essence of competition in many frag-
mented industries is personal service, local contacts, close control of
operations, ability to react to fluctuations or style changes, and so
on. A centralized organizational structure is counterproductive in
most cases, because it slows response time, lowers the incentives of
those at the local level, and can drive away skilled individuals neces-
sary to perform many personal services. Whereas centralized control
'For an extended description of Prelude see Prelude Corporation, Harvard Business
 School, ICCH #4-373-052, 1968.
212                                           COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

is often useful and even essential in managing a multiunit enterprise
in a fragmented industry, centralized structure can be a disaster.
     Similarly, the economic structure of fragmented industries is of-
ten such that a centralized production or marketing organization is
subject to no economies of scale, or even diseconomies. Thus cen-
tralization in these areas weakens rather than strengthens the firm.
     Assumption that Competitors Have the Same Overhead and Ob-
jectives. The peculiar nature of fragmented industries often means
that there are many small, privately held firms. Also, owner-manag-
ers may have noneconomic reasons for being in the business. Under
these circumstances, the assumption that these competitors will have
an overhead structure or objectives of a corporation is a serious er-
ror. They often work out of homes, use family labor, and avoid reg-
ulatory costs and the need to offer employee benefits. Even though
such competitors may be "inefficient," it does not mean that their
costs are high relative to those of a corporation in the same business.
Similarly, such competitors may be satisfied with much different
(and lower) levels of profitability than a corporation, and they may
be much more interested in keeping up volume and providing work
for their employees than profitability per se. Thus their reactions to
price changes and to other industry events may be a lot different
than the "normal" company.
     Overreactions to New Products. In a fragmented industry the
large number of competitors almost always insures that the buyer
will exercise a great deal of power and be able to play one competitor
against the other. In such a setting, products early in their life can
often appear as salvations to an otherwise intense competitive situa-
tion. With rapidly growing demand and buyers generally unfamiliar
with the new product, price competition may be modest and buyers
may be clamoring for education and service from the firm. This is
such a welcomed relief in the fragmented industry that firms make
major investments in gearing up to respond. At the first signs of ma-
turity, however, the fragmented structure catches up with demand
and the margins that were there to support these investments disap-
pear. Thus there is a risk of overreacting to new products in ways
that will raise costs and overhead and put the firm at a competitive
disadvantage in the price competition that is a fact of life in many
fragmented industries. Although coping with new products is a diffi-
cult problem in all industries, it seems especially difficult in frag-
mented businesses.
Competitive Strategy in Fragmented Industries



Formulating Strategy

     Collecting the ideas that have been discussed earlier, we are in a
          to outline a broad analytical framework for formulating
competitive strategy in fragmented industries (see Figure 9-1). Step
one is to conduct a full industry and competitor analysis to identify
the sources of the competitive forces in the industry, the structure
within the industry, and the positions of the significant competitors.
With this analysis as background, step two is t o identify the causes
of fragmentation in the industry. It is essential that the list of causes
be complete and that their relationship to the economics of the in-
dustry be established. If there is no underlying economic basis for
the fragmentation, this is an important conclusion, as has been dis-
cussed.
     Step three is to examine the causes of industry fragmentation
one by one in the context of the industry and competitor analysis in
step one. Can any of these sources of fragmentation be overcome
through innovation or strategic change? Is the infusion of resources
or a fresh perspective all that is necessary? Will any of the sources of
fragmentation be altered directly or indirectly by industry trends?
     Step four depends on a positive answer to one of the preceding
questions. If fragmentation can be overcome, the firm must assess
whether or not the implied future structure of the industry will yield
attractive returns. To answer this question the firm must predict the
new structural equilibrium in the industry once consolidation occurs
and must then reapply structural analysis. If the consolidated indus-

FIGURE 9-1 Steps for Formulating Competitive Strategy in
Fragmented Industries
Step One           What is the structure of the industry and the positions
                   of competitors?
Step Two           Why is the industry fragmented?
Step Three         Can fragmentation be overcome? How?
Step Four          Is overcoming fragmentation profitable? Where should
                   the firm be positioned to do so?
Step Five          If fragmentation is inevitable, what is the best alterna-
                   tive for coping with it?
214                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

try does promise attractive returns, the final question is, What is the
best, defendable position for the firm to adopt to take advantage of
industry consolidation?
     If the chances of overcoming fragmentation analyzed in step
three are unfavorable, step five is to select the best alternative for
coping with the fragmented structure. This step will involve a con-
sideration of the broad alternatives presented above, as well as
others that may be appropriate to the particular industry, in light of
the particular resources and skills of the firm.
     Besides providing a series of analytical processes to go through
periodically, these steps also direct attention to the key pieces of data
in analyzing fragmented industries and in competing in them. The
causes of fragmentation, predictions about the effects of innovation
on these causes, and identification of industry trends that might alter
the causes of fragmentation become essential requirements for envi-
ronmental scanning and technological forecasting.
Competitive Strategy in
Emerging Industries



Emerging industries are newly formed or re-formed industries that
have been created by technological innovations, shifts in relative
cost relationships, emergence of new consumer needs, or other eco-
nomic and sociological changes that elevate a new product or service
to the level of a potentially viable business opportunity. Emerging
industries are being created all the time; some of the many creations
of the 1970s include solar heating, video games, fiber optics, word
processing, bio-separation media, personal computers, and smoke
alarms. From a strategic standpoint, the problems of an emerging
industry are also present when an old business experiences a funda-
mental change in its competitive rules coupled with growth in scale
by orders of magnitude, caused by the sorts of environmental
changes just described. For example, bottled water has been around
for many years, but the ascendance of Perrier is symptomatic of a
growth and redefinition of the business that are fundamental. When
such growth and redefinition have occurred, an industry must con-
front strategic issues that do not differ substantially from those of
an industry beginning anew.
     The essential characteristic of an emerging industry from the
viewpoint of formulating strategy is that there are no rules of the
game. The competitive problem in an emerging industry is that all
                                                                 215
216                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

the rules must be established such that the firm can cope with and
prosper under them. The absence of rules is both a risk and a source
of opportunity; in any case it must be managed.
      This chapter will examine the problems of competitive strategy
in this important structural environment, building on the analytical
base developed in Part I. First the structural and competitor charac-
teristics of emerging industries will be outlined, to highlight the
competitive environment in such a setting. Next, I will identify the
characteristic problems encountered in the development of a new in-
dustry, that limit its growth and are central to the jockeying for posi-
tion among competitors. The factors that determine the buyers or
buyer segments that will be early buyers, or "early adopters," of the
new industry's product will be identified. Identifying these buyers is
crucial, not only for formulating competitive strategy directly, but
also for forecasting industry development since early adopters can
have a major impact on the way in which an industry designs, pro-
duces, delivers, and markets its product.
      Having identified some key aspects of the environment in
emerging industries, I will then consider some important strategic
choices that firms in them must face and some strategic alternatives
that can be successful in coping with them. Finally, some analytical
tools for forecasting the future of emerging industries will be pre-
sented, along with principles for selecting emerging industries that
offer favorable prospects as candidates for entry.


The Structural Environment

     Although emerging industries can differ a great deal in their
structures, there are some common structural factors that seem to
characterize many industries in this stage of their development. Most
of them relate either to the absence of established bases for competi-
tion or other rules of the game or to the initial small size and newness
of the industry.


      COMMON STRUCTURAL CHARACTERISTICS

     Technological Uncertainty. There is usually a great deal of un-
certainty about the technology in an emerging industry: What prod-
competitive Strategy in Emerging Industries                                  217

uct configuration will ultimately prove to be the best? Which pro-
duction technology will prove to be the most efficient? For example,
in smoke alarms there is continued uncertainty over whether photo-
electric or ionization detectors will win out as the favored alterna-
tive; both are currently being produced by different companies.' The
philips and RCA approaches to video disc technology are contend-
ing for adoption as the industry standard, as did alternative ap-
proaches to television set technology in the 1940s. Alternative pro-
duction technologies may also be present, all of which have been
untried on a large-scale basis. In the manufacture of optical fibers,
for example, there are at least five different processes backed by dif-
ferent industry participants.

     Strategic Uncertainty. Related to the technological uncertain-
ty, but broader in cause, are a wide variety of strategic approaches
often being tried by industry participants. No "right" strategy has
been clearly identified, and different firms are groping with differ-
ent approaches to product/market positioning, marketing, servic-
ing, and so on, as well as betting on different product configurations
or production technologies. For example, solar heating firms are
taking a wide variety of stances with respect to supplying compo-
nents versus systems, market segmentation, and distribution chan-
nels. Closely related to this problem, firms often have poor informa-
tion about competitors, characteristics of customers, and industry
conditions in the emerging phase. No one knows who all the compet-
itors are, and reliable industry sales and market share data are often
simply unavailable, for example.

     High Initial Costs but Steep Cost Reduction. Small produc-
tion volume and newness usually combine to produce high costs in
the emerging industry relative to those the industry can potentially
achieve. Even for technologies for which the learning curve will soon
level off, there is usually a very steep learning curve operating. Ideas
come rapidly in terms of improved procedures, plant layout, and so
on, and employees achieve major gains in productivity as job famil-
iarity increases. Increasing sales make major additions to the scale
and total accumulated volume of output produced by firms. These
factors are accentuated if, as is common, the technology in the
'Abernathy usefully terms this the absence of a "dominant design" for the product
 or service. See Abernathy (1978).
218                                              COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

emerging phase of the industry is more labor intensive than it may
ultimately become.
     The result of a steep learning curve is that the initially high costs
are declining at a very high proportional rate. If the gains due to
learning are combined with increasing opportunities to reap econo-
mies of scale as the industry grows, the cost declines will be even
more rapid.

     Embryonic Companies and Spin-offs. The emerging phase of
the industry is usually accompanied by the presence of the greatest
proportion of newly formed companies (to be contrasted with newly
formed units of established firms) that the industry will ever experi-
ence. Witness the many new firms populating such contemporary
emerging industries as personal computers and solar heating and
which characterized the early automobile industry (Packard, Hud-
son, Nash, and dozens of others) and early minicomputer industry
(e.g., Digital Equipment, Data General, Computer Automation).
Without established rules of the game or scale economies as deter-
rents, newly formed companies are in a position to get into emerging
industries (this situation will be discussed further).
      Related to the presence of newly formed companies is that of
many spin-off firms, or firms created by personnel leaving firms in
the industry to create their own new firms. Digital Equipment
spawned a number of spin-offs in minicomputers (e.g., Data Gener-
al) as did Varian Associates (e.g., General Automation), and Honey-
well, and we could cite many other industries in which spin-offs were
numerous. The phenomenon of spin-offs is related to a number of
factors. First, in an environment of rapid growth and perceived op-
portunity, the rewards of equity participation may seem attractive
when compared to a salary at an established company. Second, be-
cause of the fluidity of technology and strategy in the emerging
phase, employees of established firms are often in a good position to
think up new and better ideas, taking advantage of their proximity to
the industry. Sometimes they leave in order to increase their poten-
tial rewards, but not infrequently spin-offs occur because the em-
ployee with a new idea confronts an unwillingness of his superior to
try it, perhaps because it undermines much of the investment the
firm has made in the past. Data General was formed, so industry ob-
servers tell it, when Edson de Castro and a handful of other Digital
Equipment employees could not sell Digital on a new product idea
competitive Strategy in Emerging Industries                         219

they believed had high potential. Provided industry structure does
not provide substantial entry barriers to newly created firms, spin-
offs can be a common phenomenon in emerging industries.

     First-Time Buyers. Buyers of the emerging industry's product
or service are inherently first-time buyers. The marketing task is thus
one of inducing substitution, or getting the buyer to purchase the
new product or service instead of something else. The buyer must be
informed about the basic nature and functions of the new product or
grvice, be convinced that it can actually perform these functions,
and be persuaded that the risks of purchasing it are rationally borne
given the potential benefits. Right now, for example, solar heating
companies are struggling to persuade homeowners and homebuyers
that the cost savings of solar heating are real, that systems will per-
form reliably, and that they need not wait for further government
tax incentives to commit to the new technology. I will have much
more to say later about the factors prompting buyers to commit
themselves early to a new product or service.

     Short Time Horizon. In many emerging industries the pres-
sure to develop customers or produce products to meet demand is so
great that bottlenecks and problems are dealt with expediently rather
than as a result of an analysis of future conditions. At the same time,
industry conventions are often born out of pure chance: Confronted
with the need to set a pricing schedule, for example, one firm adopts
a two-tiered price that the marketing manager used in his previous
firm, and the other firms in the industry imitate for lack of a ready
alternative. In both these ways "conventional wisdom," which was
discussed in Chapter 3, is created.

     Subsidy. In many emerging industries, especially those with
radical new technology or that address areas of societal concern,
there may be subsidization of early entrants. Subsidy may come
from a variety of government and nongovernment sources; heavy
subsidies in solar energy and conversion of fossil fuels into gas are
particularly prominent examples of the early 1980s. Subsidies can be
awarded directly to firms in the form of grants, or can operate indi-
rectly through tax incentives, subsidizing buyers, and so on. Subsi-
dies often add a great degree of instability to an industry, which is
made dependent on political decisions that can be quickly reversed
220                                             COMPETITIVESTRATEGY

or modified. While subsidies are obviously beneficial to industry de-
velopment in some respects, they often deeply involve government
bodies in an industry, which can be a mixed blessing. Yet the need to
overcome startup difficulties leads many emerging industries to seek
subsidies; aquaculturists are actively lobbying for them in 1980.


      EARLY MOBILITY BARRIERS

     In an emerging industry, the configuration of mobility barriers
is often predictably different from that which will characterize the
industry later in its development. Common early barriers are the fol-
lowing:
       proprietary technology;
       access to distribution channels;
       access to raw materials and other inputs (skilled labor) of ap-
       propriate cost and quality;
       cost advantages due to experience, made more significant by
       the technological and competitive uncertainties;
       risk, which raises the effective opportunity cost of capital and
       thereby effective capital barriers.
     As discussed in Chapter 8, some of these barriers-such as pro-
prietary technology, access to distribution, learning effects, and
risk-have a strong tendency to decline or disappear in importance
as the industry develops. Although there are exceptions, early mobil-
ity barriers are usually not brand identification (it is just being cre-
ated), economies of scale (the industry is too small to allow them), or
capital (today's large firms can generate prodigious capital for a
low-risk investment).
     The nature of the early barriers is a key reason why we observe
newly created companies in emerging industries. The typical early
barriers stem less from the need to command massive resources than
from the ability to bear risk, be creative technologically, and make
forward-looking decisions to garner input supplies and distribution
channels. These same sorts of barriers also help explain why estab-
lished companies are often not the first firms into new industries,
even if they have obvious strengths, but climb on the bandwagon
later. Established companies may place a higher opportunity cost on
capital and are often ill-prepared to take the technological and prod-
Competitive Strategy in Emerging Industries                         221

uct risks necessary in the early phases of industry development. For
example, the toy companies were relatively late entrants into video
games despite some obvious strengths like knowledge of customers,
brand names, and distribution. The dizzying technological change
appears to have been too intimidating. Similarly, the traditional vac-
uum tube firms were late entrants into semiconductor manufacture,
and the electric coffee percolator manufacturers were beaten in auto-
matic drip coffee makers by new firms such as Mr. Coffee. There
may be some advantages to !ate entry, however, that will be dis-
cussed later.


Problems Constraining Industry Development

    Emerging industries usually face limits or problems, of varying
severity, in getting the industry off the ground. These stem from the
newness of the industry, its dependence for growth on other outside
economic entities, and externalities in its development that result
from its need to induce substitution by buyers to its product.

      Inability to Obtain Raw Materials and Components. The de-
velopment of an emerging industry requires that new suppliers be es-
tablished or existing suppliers expand output and/or modify raw
materials and components to meet the industry's needs. In the proc-
ess, severe shortages of raw materials and components are very com-
mon in emerging industries. For example, acute shortages of color
picture tubes in the mid-1960s was a major strategic factor affecting
industry participants. Video game chips, particularly those for sin-
gle-chip games pioneered by General Instrument, were very scarce
and all but unavailable to new entrants for over a year after their in-
troduction.

     Period of Rapid Escalation of Raw Materials Prices. Con-
fronted with burgeoning demand and inadequate supply, prices for
key raw materials often skyrocket in the early phases of an emerging
industry. This situation is partly simple economics of supply and de-
mand and partly the result of suppliers realizing the value of their
products to the desperate industry. As suppliers expand (or industry
participants integrate to ease bottlenecks), however, prices for raw
2x2                                                 COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

materials can fall off just as sharply. This fall-off will not happen
when supplies of raw materials cannot expand easily, such as in min-
eral bearing lands and skilled labor.

      Absence of Infrastructure. Emerging industries are often
faced with difficulties like those of material supply caused by the
lack of appropriate infrastructure: distribution channels, service fa-
cilities, trained mechanics, complementary products (e.g., appropri-
ate campsites for recreational vehicles; coal supplies for coal gasifi-
cation technology), and the like.

     Absence of Product or Technological Standardization. Inabil-
ity to agree on product or technical standards accentuates problems
in the supply of raw materials or complementary products, and can
impede cost improvements. The lack of agreement is usually caused
by the high level of product and technological uncertainty that still
remains in an emerging industry.

     Perceived Likelihood of Obsolescence. An emerging indus-
try's growth will be impeded if buyers perceive that second- or third-
generation technologies will significantly make obsolete currently
available products. Buyers will wait instead for the pace of techno-
logical progress and cost reduction to slow down. This phenomenon
has been present in such industries as digital watches and electronic
calculators.

      Customers' Confusion. Emerging industries are often beset by
customers' confusion, which results from the presence of a multi-
plicity of product approaches, technological variations, and con-
flicting claims and counterclaims by competitors. All these are
symptomatic of technological uncertainty and the resulting lack of
standardization and general technical agreement by industry partici-
pants. Such confusion can limit industry sales by raising the new
buyers' perceived risk of purchase. For example, the conflicting
claims being made by ionization versus photoelectric smoke alarm
manufacturers are believed by some observers to be causing buyers
to postpone purchases. An article summarizes a similar problem for
the solar heating industry in 1979:
      But also important for the industry's future health will be its de-
      gree of success in matching equipment performance to customer
Competitive Strategy in Emerging Industries                              223

     expectation. "Overenthusiasm, ignorance and selfish interests are
     endangering the success of applying a great energy source to
     America's needs," said Loff at the Denver solar conference.
     While Loff emphasized that inaction on the tax incentives was a
     root cause of industry malaise, he also blamed uninformed "solar
     messiahs, problems and failures with solar heating systems in
     buildings, and . . . irresponsible claims of supplier^."^


      Erratic Product Quality. With many newly established firms,
lack of standards, and technological uncertainty, product quality is
often erratic in emerging industries. This erratic quality, even if
caused by only a few firms, can negatively affect the image and cred-
ibility of the entire industry. Video game defects, such as the burning
of television picture tubes, have set back early growth in much the
same way as the erratic performance of digital watches (and of newly
established franchised automobile tune-up centers) has led to cus-
tomers' suspicion.

     Image and Credibility with the Financial Community. As a re-
sult of newness, the high level of uncertainty, customer confusion,
and erratic quality, the emerging industry's image and credibility
with the financial community may be poor. This result can affect not
only the ability of firms to secure low-cost financing but also the
ability of buyers to obtain credit. Although difficulty in financing is
probably the most common situation, some industries (usually high-
technology businesses or "concept" companies) seem to be a n ex-
ception. In industries like minicomputers and data transmission,
even newly started firms have enjoyed a status as darlings of Wall
Street, with very high multiples and effectively cheap money.'

      Regulatory Approval. Emerging industries often face delays
and red tape in gaining recognition and approval by regulatory agen-
cies if they offer new approaches to needs currently served by other
means and subject to regulation. For example, modular housing was
severely crippled by inflexibility in building codes, and new medical
products now face long periods of mandatory precertification test-
ing. On the other hand, government policy can put an emerging in-
'"The Coming Boom in Solar Energy," Business Week, October 9 , 1978.
'See Fruhan (1979) for other examples.
224                                                  COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

dustry on the map almost overnight, as it has by mandating smoke
alarms.
      If the emerging industry is outside a traditionally regulated
sphere, regulation sometimes comes abruptly and can slow the
industry's progress. For example, mineral water was traditionally ig-
nored by regulators until the industry greatly expanded in the mid-
1970s. Having reached significant size, however, mineral water pro-
ducers are being drowned in regulations about labeling and health.4
The same phenomenon occurred in bicycles and chain saws; once a
growth boom increased the size of the industry, regulators took no-
tice.

     High Costs. Because of many of the structural conditions de-
scribed earlier, the emerging industry is often faced with unit costs
much higher than firms know they will eventually be. This situation
sometimes requires firms initially to price below cost or severely
limit industry development. The problem is starting up the cost-vol-
ume cycle.

     Response of Threatened Entities. Some entity is almost always
threatened by the advent of an emerging industry. It may be the in-
dustry producing a substitute product, labor unions, distribution
channels with ties to the old product and preferring the certainty of
dealing with it, and so on. For example, most electric utilities are
lobbying against solar energy subsidies because they believe solar
power will not relieve needs for peak load electrical capacity. Con-
struction unions fought bitterly against modular housing.
     The threatened entity can fight the emerging industry in a num-
ber of ways. One is in the regulatory or political arena; another is at
the collective bargaining table. In the case of an industry threatened
by substitution, its response can take the form of foregoing profits
by lowering prices (or raising costs such as marketing) or making
R&D investments aimed at making the threatened product or service
more competitive. Figure 10-1 illustrates the latter c h o i ~ e If
                                                                 . ~ the
threatened industry chooses to invest to try to bring its quality-
adjusted costs down, it is clear that the target at which learning and
scale-related cost reductions in the emerging industry must shoot is a
moving one.
"'Mineral Water Could Drown in Regulation," Business Week, June 1 1 , 1979.
'This diagram was suggested by John Forbus of McKinsey & Company.
Competitive Strategy in Emerging Industries


                           Emerging Industry
                                                        /'




                                           /   A   Let technology atrophy
  Unit Costs


                   Threatened
                    Industry
                                               B   Invest to lower costs

               L

                                                       Time

FIGURE 10-1. Response of Threatened Industry to Substitution

     The propensity of the threatened industry to forego profits in
pricing or aggressively investing in cost reduction to hold volume
will be a direct function of the exit barriers (see Chapters 1 and 12) in
the threatened industry. If they are high because of specialized as-
sets, high perceived strategic importance, emotional ties, or other
causes, then the emerging industry may well face determined and
even desperate efforts by the threatened industry to stem its growth.


Early and Late Markets6

     One of the crucial questions for strategic purposes in an emerg-
ing industry is often the assessment of which markets for the new in-
dustry's product will open up early and which will come later. This
assessment not only helps focus product development and marketing
efforts but also is essential to forecasting structural evolution, since
the early markets often exert a major influence on the manner in
which an industry develops.
     Markets, market segments, and even particular buyers within
market segments may have greatly different receptivity to a new
 'The ideas in this section have benefited greatly from work by Margaret 0.
  Lawrence, then research assistant in Business Policy a t the Harvard Business
  School.
226                                                    COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

product. A number of criteria seem to be crucial in determining this
receptivity, some of which can be influenced or overcome by firms in
the emerging industry.'

      Nature of the Benefit. Perhaps the single most important de-
terminant of the receptivity of the buyer to a new product or service
is the nature of the expected benefit. We can imagine a continuum of
benefits ranging from a new product that offers a performance ad-
vantage unachievable through other means to one that offers solely a
cost advantage. Intermediate cases are those offering an advantage
in performance but one that could be replicated through other means
at higher cost.
     The earliest markets purchasing a new product, other things be-
ing equal, are usually those in which the advantage is one of per-
formance. This situation occurs because the achievement of a cost
advantage in practice is often viewed with suspicion when buyers
confront the newness, uncertainty, and often erratic performance of
the emerging industry, among other factors to be discussed later.
Whether the benefit from the new product is one of cost or perforrn-
ance, however, the receptivity of the buyer depends on a number of
other aspects of the nature of the benefit it offers:


        How large is the performance advantage for the particular
        buyers? Buyers will differ in this regard because of differ-
        ences in their situations.
        How obvious is the advantage?
        How pressing is the need for the buyer to improve along the
        dimension offered by the new product?
        Does the performance advantage improve the competitive po-
        sition of the buyer?
        How strong is competitive pressure to compel changeover?
        Performance advantages that help counter a threat to the
        buyer's business or are defensive in nature usually stimulate
        adoption before those that offer a chance to improve compet-
        itively on an offensive basis.
        How price and/or cost sensitive is the buyer, if the added per-
        formance entails higher cost?
'These criteria can also be applied to forecasting early markets for a new product
 variety in an established industry.
Competitive Strategy in Emerging Industries




        How large is the cost advantage for the particular buyer?
        How obvious is the advantage?
        Can a lasting competitive advantage be gained from lowering
        costs?
        How much competitive pressure compels changeover?
        How cost-oriented is the prospective buyer's business
        strategy?
      In some cases, buyers are compelled by regulatory fiat (or by
fiat from other entitites, like insurance companies in order to qualify
for insurance) to purchase a new product that serves a particular
function. In such cases buyers usually will purchase the lowest cost
alternative that meets the technical requirements.

      State of the Art Required to Yield Significant Benefits. A sec-
ond key factor in determining whether buyers will adopt the new
product early is the technological performance their application de-
mands of the product. Some buyers may be able to achieve valuable
benefits even with rudimentary versions of the new product, whereas
others will require more sophisticated varieties. For example, scien-
tists in the laboratory were satisfied with relatively high-cost and
low-speed minicomputers to solve data processing problems for
which no real alternatives existed. Conversely, accounting and con-
trol applications required lower-cost and more sophisticated ver-
sions, and these applications developed later.

      Cost of Product Failure. Buyers who face a relatively high
cost of product failure will usually be slower in adopting a new prod-
uct than ones whose risk is lower. Buyers whose use for the new
product involves plugging it into an integrated system often face
very high failure costs, as do buyers who pay particularly high penal-
ties for interrupted service of the product for some reason. The cost
of failure also depends on the resources of the buyers. For example,
wealthy individuals are probably less concerned that their newly pur-
chased snowmobile does not work or does not provide the claimed
benefits than are individuals for whom the purchase will effectively
negate possibilities for acquiring other leisure-time products.

    Introduction or Switching Costs. The costs of introducing a
new product or of substituting the new product for an existing one
                                               COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

will differ for different buyers. These costs are analogous to switch-
ing costs, which are discussed in Chapters 1 and 6, and include the
following:
       costs of retraining employees;
       costs of acquiring new ancillary equipment;
       write-offs due to undepreciated investment (net of salvage
       value) in old technology;
       capital requirements for changeover;
       engineering or R&D costs of changeover;
       costs in modifying interrelated stages of production or related
       aspects of the business.
     Changeover costs can be subtle. For example, when adopting
the new coal gasification technology instead of purchasing gas from
a utility, a prospective buyer often must cope with changes in the
chemical properties of the gas. For some buyers this affects the per-
formance of the gas in their downstream manufacturing operations
and requires investments in modification there.
     Changeover costs are often influenced by the pace of change-
over, when the pace is discretionary, and also by such factors as
       whether the new product is serving a new function or replac-
       ing an existing product; replacement often involves the added
       cost of retraining, undepreciated investment, and so on;
       length of redesign cycles; it is usually easier to substitute a
       new product during a period of normal redesign than if the
       substitution requires an unscheduled redesign.

     Support Services. Closely related to changeover costs in influ-
encing timing of adoption are the requirements the buyer faces for
support services (e.g., engineering, repair) to cope with the new
product, relative to the capability of the buyer. For example, if the
new product requires skilled operators or service technicians, it is
likely to be adopted first by buyers who either have such resources
already or have experience in dealing with them.

     Cost of Obsolescence. For particular buyers, the degree to
which successive generations of technology in the emerging industry
will make early versions of the product obsolete varies. Some buyers
can obtain all the benefits they really need from the first generation,
whereas others will be forced to acquire successive generations of the
Competitive Strategy in Emerging Industries                         229

new product to remain competitive. Depending on their changeover
costs (discussed above), the latter buyers may be more or less willing
to buy early.

     Asymmetric Government, Regulatory, or Labor Barriers. The
degree to which regulatory barriers to adopting the new product are
present may differ for various buyers. Food and pharmaceutical
producers are closely monitored concerning any change in their man-
ufacturing operations, for example, whereas firms in many other in-
dustries can change their processes freely. The same asymmetry can
apply to inertia created by labor agreements.

    Resources to Change. Buyers will differ with respect to the re-
sources they have available for changeover to the new product, in-
cluding capital, engineering, and R&D personnel.

     Perception of Technological Change. Buyers may differ in
their comfort with and experience in technological change. In busi-
nesses characterized by rapid technological progress and possessing
a high degree of technological sophistication, a new product can
seem a great deal less threatening than in a very stable, low-technol-
ogy industry. Related to this factor, technological change in some in-
dustries is viewed as an opportunity to improve strategic position,
whereas in others it has always been a threat. The former are more
likely to be the early buyers of a new product than the latter, other
things being equal.

     Personal Risk to the Decision Maker. Buyers will be slowest to
adopt a new product when the responsible decision maker faces the
greatest perceived risk if the decision to adopt proves incorrect in the
near to medium term. This perceived personal risk may vary a great
deal, depending on the ownership or power structure of the buyer.


Strategic Choices

     Formulation of strategy in emerging industries must cope with
the uncertainty and risk of this period of an industry's development.
The rules of the competitive game are largely undefined, the struc-
ture of the industry unsettled and probably changing, and competi-
230                                              COMPETlTlVESTRATEGY

tors hard to diagnose. Yet all these factors have another side-the
emerging phase of a n industry's development is probably the period
when the strategic degrees of freedom are the greatest and when the
leverage from good strategic choices is the highest in determining
performance.

     Shaping Industry Structure. The overriding strategic issue in
emerging industries is the ability of the firm to shape industry struc-
ture. Through its choices, the firm can try to set the rules of the game
in areas like product policy, marketing approach, and pricing strat-
egy. Within the constraints set by the underlying economics of the
industry and its resources, the firm should seek to define the rules in
the industry in a manner that will yield it the strongest position in the
long run.

      Externalities in Industry Development. In an emerging indus-
try, a key strategic issue is the balance the firm strikes between indus-
try advocacy and pursuing its own narrow self-interest. Because of
potential problems with industry image, credibility, and confusion
of buyers (outlined in Section I1 in this chapter), in the emerging
phase the firm is in part dependent on others in the industry for its
own success. The overriding problem for the industry is inducing
substitution and attracting first-time buyers, and it is usually in the
firm's interest during this phase to help promote standardization,
police substandard quality and fly-by-night producers, and present a
consistent front to suppliers, customers, government, and the finan-
cial community. Industry conferences and associations can be a use-
ful device, as can the avoidance of strategies that degrade competi-
tors. For exampIe, in the hospital management industry that has
grown up since 1970, all the participants are critically dependent on
the industry's image of professionalism and its credibility with lend-
ers. Firms in this industry have had a practice of actually praising the
industry and their competitors by name.
     This need for industry cooperation during the emerging period
often seems to raise a n internal dilemma for firms, who are driven
toward pursuing their own market position, often to the detriment
of industry development. A firm may resist standardization on prod-
ucts, needed to aid ease of repair and promote customers' confidence,
because it wants to maintain uniqueness or garner the advantage of
having its particular product variety adopted as standard. There is a
fine line of judgment that determines whether or not such an ap-
Competitive Strategy in Emerging Industries                          231

preach is optimal in the long run. Some firms in the smoke alarm in-
dustry, for example, are advocating industry standards that will hurt
other firms. At the same time, buyers' confusion is continuing about
just what kind of alarm is best. The question is whether the industry
is developed enough for such confusion to be a significant problem
for future industry growth.
      It is probably a valid generalization that the balance between in-
dustry outlook and firm outlook must shift in the direction of the
firm as the industry begins to achieve significant penetration. Some-
times firms who have taken very high profiles as industry spokesper-
sons, much to their and the industry's benefit, fail to recognize that
they must shift their orientation. As a result, they can be left behind
as the industry matures.
      Another implication of externalities in industry development is
the possibility that a firm may have to compete initially with a strat-
egy it ultimately does not want to folrow or participate in market
segments it plans to drop out of in the long run. These "temporary"
actions may be necessary to develop the industry, but once it is devel-
oped the firm is free to seek its optimal position. For example, Corn-
ing Glass Works has been forced to invest in research on connectors,
splicing techniques, and light sources for fiber optic applications-
even though in the long run Corning seems to want to be a fiber and
cable supplier only-because the quality of available equipment and
techniques has been an impediment to the development of fiber op-
tics generally. Such investments outside the firm's ideal long-run po-
sition are part of the cost of pioneering.

     Changing Role of Suppliers and Channels. Strategically, the
firm in an emerging industry must be prepared for a possible shift in
the orientation of its suppliers and distribution channels as the in-
dustry grows in size and proves itself. Suppliers may become increas-
ingly willing (or can be forced) to respond to the industry's special
needs in terms of varieties, service, and delivery. Similarly, distribu-
tion channels may become more receptive to investing in facilities,
advertising, and so forth in partnership with the firms. Early exploi-
tation of these changes in orientation can give the firm strategic lev-
erage.

     Shifting Mobility Barriers. As outlined above in this chapter,
the early mobility barriers may erode quickly in an emerging indus-
try, often to be replaced by very different ones as the industry grows
                                                COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

in size and as the technology matures. This factor has a number of
implications. The most obvious is that the firm must be prepared to
find new ways to defend its position and must not rely solely on
things like proprietary technology and a unique product variety on
which it has succeeded in the past. Responding to shifting mobility
barriers may involve commitments of capital that far exceed those
that have been necessary in the early phases.
     Another implication is that the nature of entrants into the in-
dustry may shift to more established firms attracted to the larger and
increasingly proven (less risky) industry, often competing on the
basis of the newer forms of mobility barriers, like scale and market-
ing clout. The firm in an emerging industry must forecast the nature
of probable potential entrants based on its assessment of present and
future barriers, coupled with the attraction the industry will hold to
various types of firms and their ability to hurdle the barriers cheaply.
     Another implication related to increasing industry size and tech-
nological maturity is that customers or suppliers may integrate into
the industry-which has occurred in such industries as aerosol pack-
aging, recreational vehicles, and electronic calculators. The firm
must be prepared to secure supplies and markets if integration oc-
curs or stop integration moves by the way in which it competes.


    TIMING ENTRY

     A crucial strategic choice for competing in emerging industries
is the appropriate timing of entry. Early entry (or pioneering) in-
volves high risk but may involve otherwise low entry barriers and
can offer a large return. Early entry is appropriate when the follow-
ing general circumstances hold:
       Image and reputation of the firm are important to the buyer,
       and the firm can develop an enhanced reputation by being a
       pioneer.
       Early entry can initiate the learning process in a business in
       which the learning curve is important, experience is difficult
       to imitate, and it will not be nullified by successive technolog-
       ical generations.
       Customer loyalty will be great, so that benefits will accrue to
       the firm that sells to the customer first.
       Absolute cost advantages can be gained by early commitment
       to supplies of raw materials, distribution channels, and so on.
Competitive Strategy in Emerging Industries                          233

Early entry is especially risky in the following circumstances:
       Early competition and market segmentation are on a basis
       different to that which will be important later in industry de-
       velopment. The firm, therefore, builds the wrong skills and
       may face high costs of changeover.
       Costs of opening up the market are great, including such
       things as customer education, regulatory approvals, and tech-
       nological pioneering, and the benefits of opening up the mar-
       ket cannot be made proprietary to the firm.
       Early competition with small, newly started firms will be
       costly, but these firms will be replaced by more formidable
       competition later.
       Technological change will make early investments obsolete
       and allow firms entering later to have an advantage by having
       the newest products and processes.


    Tactical Moves. The problems limiting development of an
emerging industry suggest some tactical moves that may improve the
firm's strategic position:
        Early commitments to suppliers of raw materials will yield fa-
        vorable priorities in times of shortages.
        Financing can be timed to take advantage of a Wall Street
        love affair with the industry if it happens, even if financing is
        ahead of actual needs. This step lowers the firm's cost of cap-
        ital.



     COPING WITH COMPETITORS

     Coping with competitors in an emerging industry may be a dif-
ficult problem, particularly for firms that have been pioneers and
have enjoyed major market shares. The proliferation of newly
formed entrants and spin-offs may cause resentments, and the firm
must confront the external factors described previously which make
it in part dependent on competitors for the development of the in-
dustry.
      One common problem in emerging industries is that pioneers
expend excessive resources defending high market shares and re-
sponding to competitors who may have little chance of becoming
234                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

market forces in the long run. This can be partly an emotional reac-
tion. Although it may sometimes be appropriate to respond to com-
petitors vigorously in the emerging phase, it is more likely that the
firm's efforts are best spent in building its own strengths and in de-
veloping the icdustry. It may even be appropriate to encourage the
entry of certain competitors, perhaps through licensing or other
means. Given the characteristics of the emerging phase, the firm of-
ten benefits from having other firms aggressively selling the indus-
try's product and aiding in technological development. The firm
may also want competitors who are known quantities, rather than
preserving a large share for itself but inviting entry by major estab-
lished firms as the industry matures. It is difficult to generalize
about the appropriate strategy, but only in rare cases will it be feasi-
ble and profitable to defend a near monopoly market share as the in-
dustry grows rapidly, even though the firm has one initially.



Techniques for Forecasting

      The overriding aspect of emerging industries is great uncertain-
ty, coupled with the certainty that change will occur. Strategy cannot
be formulated without an explicit or implicit forecast of how the
structure of the industry will evolve. Unfortunately, however, the
number of variables that enter into such a forecast is usually stagger-
ing. As a result, an approach for reducing the complexity of the fore-
casting process is highly desirable.
      The device of scenarios is a particularly useful tool in emerging
industries. Scenarios are discrete, internally consistent views of how
the world will look in the future, which can be selected to bound the
probable range of outcomes that might feasibly occur. Scenarios can
be used for forecasting in emerging industries as shown in Figure
10-2. The starting point for forecasting is estimating the future evo-
lution of product and technology, in such terms as cost, product va-
riety, and performance. The analyst should select a small number of
internally consistent product/technology scenarios that encompasses
the range of possible outcomes. For each of these scenarios, the ana-
lyst then creates a scenario of which markets will open up and what
their size and characteristics will be. Here the first feedback loop oc-
curs, since the nature of the markets that open up early can shape the
way in which the products and technology evolve. The analyst must
competitive Strategy in Emerging Industries
                                        Feedback
                                          Loop




   product/Technology
                           Feedback

                                        Markets
                                                    Loop    -  Competition




<         Scenario A



          Scenario B

FIGURE 10-2 Forecasting in an Emerging Industry
                                                                        +


                                                                        w




attempt to build this interaction in an iterative way into the
scenarios.
     The next step is to develop the implications for competiton for
each product/technology/market scenario and then forecast the
probable success of different competitors. This process may well in-
volve forecasting the entry of new firms, and accomplishing it will
involve further feedbacks, because the nature and resources of com-
petitors can influence the direction an industry takes in its develop-
ment.
     Having developed the scenarios as outlined, the firm is in a po-
sition to examine its position, assessing which scenario it will bet on
or how it will behave strategically if each scenario actually occurs.
The firm may choose to try to cause the most advantageous scenario
to occur if it has resources; or it may be forced by limited resources
or great uncertainty to maintain flexibility. In any case, the firm will
benefit by identifying explicitly the key events which will signal
whether one scenario or another is actually occurring, in order to
create an agenda for its strategic planning and technological moni-
toring.



Which Emerging Industries to Enter

     The choice of which emerging industry to enter is dependent on
the outcome of a predictive exercise such as the one described above.
An emerging industry is attractive if its ultimate structure (not its ini-
tial structure) is one that is consistent with above-average returns
236                                                COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

and if the firm can create a defendable position in the i n d ~ s t r yin the
long run. The latter will depend on its resources relative to the mobil-
ity barriers that will evolve.
     Too often firms enter emerging industries because they are
growing rapidly, because incumbents are currently very profitable,
or because ultimate industry size promises to be large. These may be
contributing reasons, but the decision to enter must ultimately de-
pend on a structural analysis. Chapter 16 in Part I11 of this book dis-
cusses the decision to enter an industry in considerably more detail.
The Transition to
Industry Maturity




As part of their evolutionary process, many industries pass from pe-
riods of rapid growth to the more modest growth of what is com-
monly called industry maturity. Snowmobiles, hand calculators, ten-
nis courts and equipment, and integrated circuits are just a few of
the industries going through such a process in the mid- and late
1970s. As discussed in Chapter 8, industry maturity does not occur
at any fixed point in an industry's development, and it can be de-
layed by innovations or other events that fuel continued growth for
industry participants. Moreover, in response to strategic break-
throughs, mature industries may regain their rapid growth and
thereby go through more than one transition to maturity. With these
important qualifications in mind, however, let us consider the case
in which a transition to maturity is occurring and possibilities for
forestalling such a transition have been exhausted.
      When it occurs, the transition to maturity is nearly always a
critical period for companies in an industry. It is a period during
which fundamental changes often take place in companies' com-
petitive environment, requiring difficult strategic responses. Firms
sometimes have trouble perceiving these environmental changes
238                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

clearly; even when they are perceived, responding to them can re-
quire changes in strategy that firms balk at making. Moreover, the
impact of transition to maturity extends beyond strategic considera-
tions, holding implications for the organizational structure of the
firm and the role of its leadership. These administrative implications
are at the heart of some of the difficulties in making the required
strategic adjustments.
     This chapter will examine some of these issues, drawing on the
analytical base in Part I of this book. It will focus on identifying the
strategic and administrative problems raised by the transition rather
than on an analysis of the process itself. Industry evolution itself is
treated in more depth in Chapter 8.



Industry Change during Transition

     Transition to maturity can often signal a number of important
changes in an industry's competitive environment. Some of the
probable tendencies for change are as follows:
     1. Slowing growth means more competition for market share.
With companies unable to maintain historical growth rates merely
by holding market share, competitive attention turns inward toward
attacking the shares of the others. This situation occurred in 1978 in
the dishwasher business, which was becoming saturated, when both
GE and Maytag began to attack Hobart aggressively in the higher-
price segments of the market. Increased competition for market
share requires a fundamental reorientation in a company's perspec-
tive and a completely new set of assumptions about how competitors
will behave and react. Competitor analysis like that described in
Chapters 3 and 4 must be repeated. Knowledge of competitors'
characteristics and their reactions that has been gained in the past
must be reassessed, if not discarded. Not only are competitors prob-
ably going to be more aggressive, but also the likelihood of misper-
ceptions and "irrational" retaliation is great. Outbreaks of price,
service, and promotional warfare are common during transition to
maturity.
     2. Firms in the industry increasingly are selling to experienced,
repeat buyers. The product is no longer new but an established, legit-
imate item. Buyers are often increasingly knowledgeable and experi-
enced, having already purchased the product, sometimes repeatedly.
The Transition to Industry Maturity                                  239

The buyers' focus shifts from deciding whether to purchase the
product at all to making choices among brands. Approaching these
differently oriented buyers requires a fundamental reassessment of
strategy;
     3. Competition often shifts toward greater emphasis on cost
and service. As a result of slower growth, more knowledgeable
buyers, and usually greater technological maturity, competition
tends to become more cost- and service-oriented. This development
shifts the requirements for success in the industry and may require a
dramatic reorientation of the "way of life" in a company used to
competing on other grounds. The added pressure on costs may also
increase requirements for capital by forcing the firm to acquire the
most modern facilities and equipment.
     4. There is a topping-out problem in adding industry capacity
andpersonnel. As the industry adjusts to slower growth, the rate of
capacity addition in the industry must slow down as well or overca-
pacity will occur. Thus companies' orientations toward adding ca-
pacity and personnel must fundamentally shift and be disassociated
from the euphoria of the past. A firm is confronted with the need to
monitor competitors' capacity additions closely and to time its ca-
pacity additions with precision. Rapid growth will no longer quickly
cover mistakes by rapidly eliminating excess capacity.
     These shifts in perspective rarely occur in maturing industries,
and overshooting of industry capacity relative to demand is com-
mon. Overshooting leads to a period of overcapacity, accentuating
the tendency during transition toward price warfare. The greater the
size of efficient increments of capacity in the industry, the more dif-
ficult the topping-out problem. It is also more difficult if the person-
nel to be added are highly skilled and require long periods to locate
and train.
     5. Manufacturing, marketing, distributing, selling, and re-
search methods are often undergoing change. These changes are
caused by increased competition for market share, technological ma-
turity, and buyer sophistication. (Some of the possible changes have
been discussed in Chapter 8.)The firm is faced with the need for
either a fundamental reorientation of its functional policies or some
strategic action that will make reorientation unnecessary. If the firm
must respond to such changes in functional policy, capital resources
and new skills are almost always required. Adoption of new manu-
facturing methods may accentuate the problems of overcapacity dis-
cussed above.
240                                            COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

     6 . New products and applications are harder to come by,
Whereas the growth phase may have been one of rapid discovery of
new products and applications, the ability to continue product
change generally becomes increasingly limited, or the costs and risks
greatly increase, as the industry matures. This change requires,
among other things, a reorientation of attitude toward research and
new product development.
     7 . International competition increases. As a consequence of
technological maturity, often accompanied by product standardiza-
tion and increasing emphasis on costs, transition is often marked by
the emergence of significant international competition. The forces
leading to internationalization of an industry are discussed in detail
in Chapter 13, as are some of the key implications of global competi-
tion. International competitors often have different cost structures
and different goals than domestic firms and a home market base
from which to operate. Significant exports or foreign investment by
domestic firms usually predates transition to maturity in a large mar-
ket like the United States.
     8. Industry profits often fall during the transition period,
sometimes temporarily and sometimes permanently. Slowing
growth, more sophisticated buyers, more emphasis on market share,
and the uncertainties and difficulties of the required strategic
changes usually mean that industry profits fall in the short run from
the levels of the pretransition growth phase. Some firms may be
more affected than others, the firms with smaller share usually the
most. Falling profits reduce cash flow during a period when it may
be sorely needed. They also tend to send stock prices tumbling for
publicly held companies and increase the difficulty of raising debt fi-
nancing. Whether or not profits will rebound depends on the level of
mobility barriers and other elements of industry structure which
have been discussed in Part I.
     9 . Dealers' margins fall, but their power increases. For the
same reasons that industry profits are often depressed, dealers' mar-
gins may be squeezed, and many dealers may drop out of the busi-
ness-often before the effect on manufacturers' profits is notice-
able. This factor may be seen recently among dealers of television
receivers and recreational vehicles. Such trends tighten competition
among industry participants for dealers, who may have been easy to
find and hold in the growth phase but not upon maturity. Thus,
dealers' power may increase markedly.
The Transition to Industry Maturity

                                                   '
Some Strategic Implications of Transition

      The changes that often accompany transition to maturity repre-
sent possible changes in the basic structure of the industry. Each ma-
jor element of industry structure often is changing: overall mobility
barriers, the relative significance of various barriers, the intensity of
rivalry (it usually increases), and so on. Structural change nearly al-
ways means that firms must respond strategically, because it implies
that the fundamental nature of competition changes correspondingly
in the industry.
      Some characteristic strategic issues often arise in transition.
These are presented as issues to examine rather than generalizations
that will apply to all industries; like humans, all industries mature a
little differently. Many of these approaches can be a basis for the en-
try of new firms into an industry even though it is mature.


     OVERALL COST LEADERSHIP VERSUS DIFFERENTIATE
     VERSUS FOCUS-THE STRATEGIC DILEMMA MADE ACUTE
     BY MATURITY

     Rapid growth tends to mask strategic errors and allow most, if
not all, companies in the industry to survive and even to prosper fi-
nancially. Strategic experimentation is high, and a wide variety of
strategies can coexist. Strategic sloppiness is generally exposed by in-
dustry maturity, however. Maturity may force companies to con-
front, often for the first time, the need to choose among the three
generic strategies described in Chapter 2. It becomes a matter of sur-
vival.


     SOPHISTICATED COST ANALYSIS

     Cost analysis becomes increasingly important in maturity to (1)
rationalize the product mix and (2) price correctly.


     Although a broad product line and frequent introduction of
new varieties and options may have been possible during growth,
242                                                    COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

and often necessary and desirable for industry development, this sit-
uation may no longer be viable in the mature setting. Cost competi-
tion and fights for market share are too demanding. As a result, a
quantum improvement in the sophistication of product costing is
necessary to allow pruning of unprofitable items from the line and to
focus attention on items either that have some distinctive advantage
(technology, cost, image, etc.) or whose buyers are "good" buyers.'
Average costing for groups of products, or the loading of average
overhead for costing purposes, becomes inadequate for evaluating
the product line and possible additions to it. The need to rationalize
the product line sometimes creates the need to install computerized
costing systems, which had not been of high priority during the in-
dustry's developmental years. Such line pruning has been crucial to
RCA's success with Hertz, for example.


     Related to product line rationalization is the change in pricing
methodology that is often necessary in maturity. Although average-
cost pricing, or pricing the line as a whole rather than as individual
items, may have been sufficient in the growth era,2 maturity often
requires increased capability to measure costs on individual items
and to price accordingly. Implicit cross-subsidization within the
product line through average-cost pricing hides products whose mar-
kets cannot support their true costs and gives away profits in those
situations in which buyers are not price sensitive. Cross-subsidiza-
tion also invites price cutting or new product introductions by com-
petitors against the items priced artificially high. Competitors who
lack the costing sophistication to price rationally, and hence who re-
tard the adjustment of prices on unrealistically low-priced items, are
sometimes a problem in mature industries.
     Sometimes other aspects of pricing strategy can and should be
changed in maturity. For example, Mark Controls has achieved
great success in the tough valve business by eliminating unprofitable
lines and also by renegotiating contracts with buyers to include esca-
lator clauses for inflation. Contracts in the industry traditionally
had been fixed price, and inflation adjustments were not critical to
raising prices in the growth phase; no other firm had ever had to ne-
gotiate escalator clauses. However, they have proved to be of great
 'See Chapter 6.
'Average-cost pricing may have been desirable to develop the full product line and
  establish a market position.
The Transition to Industry Maturity                                          243

benefit in the mature phase, when making price increases stick has
become increasingly difficult.
     We might summarize this and the other points in this section by
saying that an enhanced level of "financial consciousness" along a
variety of dimensions is often necessary in maturity, whereas in the
developmental period of the industry areas such as new products and
research may have rightly held center stage. Raising financial con-
sciousness may be more or less difficult in the industry depending on
the training and orientation of management. In the Mark Controls
case, for example, it took a financially oriented outsider to initiate
financial innovations in an industry dominated by established family
firms.


     PROCESS INNOVATION AND DESIGN FOR MANUFACTURE

      The relative importance of process innovations usually in-
creases in maturity, as does the payoff for designing the product and
its delivery system to facilitate lower-cost manufacturing and con-
t r ~ l Japanese
        .~       industry has put a great premium on this factor, to
which many attribute its success in industries such as television re-
ceivers. Designing for manufacture has also been key to Canteen
Corporation's improvements in position in the maturing industrial
food service business. Canteen has moved from allowing local cooks
latitude in the preparation of meals toward common dish formula-
tions nationwide. This change has improved the consistency of the
quality of meals, allowed easier shifting of cooks among locations,
facilitated easier control of operations, and led to other cost-savings
and productivity improvement^.^


     INCREASING SCOPE OF PURCHASES

     Increasing purchases of existing customers may be more desir-
able than seeking new customers. Incremental sales to existing cus-
tomers can sometimes be increased by supplying peripheral equip-
ment and service, upgrading the product line, widening the line, and
So on. Such a strategy may take the firm out of the industry into re-
lated industries. This strategy is often less costly than finding new
'For an intriguing study documenting this situation, see Abernathy (1978).
'For a brief description, see Business Week, August IS, 1977.
244                                           COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

customers. In a mature industry, winning new customers usually
means battling for market share with competitors and is consequent-
ly quite expensive.
      This strategy has been or is being practiced successfully by such
firms as Southland Corp. (7-Eleven Stores), Household Finance
Corporation (HFC), and Gerber Products. Southland is adding fast
food, self-service gas, pinball machines, and other lines to its stores
to capture a bigger share of its customers' dollars and to increase im-
pulse buying and avoid the cost of establishing new locations. Simi-
larly, HFC is adding new services, such as tax preparation, larger
loans, and even banking, to broaden the product line it can sell to its
very large customer base. Gerber's strategy of "more bucks per
baby" is another variation of the same approach. Gerber has added
infant clothes and other infant products to its dominant baby-food
line.

      BUY CHEAP ASSETS

     Sometimes assets can be acquired very cheaply as a result of the
company distress that is caused by transition to maturity. A strategy
of acquiring distressed companies or buying liquidated assets can
improve margins and create a low-cost position if the rate of techno-
logical change is not too great. This strategy has been employed suc-
cessfully by little-known Heilman in the brewing industry. Despite
increasing concentration at the top of the industry, Heilman grew at
18 percent per year from 1972-1976 (to $300 million in sales in
1976), with a return on equity in excess of 20 percent, by acquiring
regional brewers and used equipment at bargain prices. Industry
leaders have been blocked from acquisitions by the antitrust laws
and have been forced to build large new plants at current prices.
White Consolidated also employs a variant of this strategy. It spe-
cializes in purchasing distressed companies, such as Sundstrand's ma-
chine tool business and Westinghouse's appliance business, at prices
below book value and then reducing overhead. In many cases this
strategy results in a profitable going concern.


      BUYER SELECTION

    As buyers become more knowledgeable and competitive pres-
sures increase in maturity, buyer selection can sometimes be a key to
The Transition to Industry Maturity                                       245

continued profitability. Buyers who may not have exercised their
bargaining power in the past, or had less power because of limited
product availability, will usually not be bashful about exercising
their power in maturity. Identifying "good" buyers and locking
them in, as discussed in Chapter 6 , becomes crucial.


     DIFFERENT COST CURVES

     There is often more than one cost curve possible in an industry.
The firm that is not the overall cost leader in a mature market can
sometimes find new cost curves which may actually make it a lower-
cost producer for certain types of buyers, product varieties, or order
sizes. This step is key to implementing the generic strategy of focus
described in Chapter 2. Consider Figure 11-1, for example:

            I                                Specialist in short lots,




                                           _G
                                             cistorn designed products




                                                    Volurne/cost
Unit Cost

                                                    leadership strategy

                                                       J
                                      II
                                               Volume of Particular
                                               Product or Variety

FIGURE 11.1.     Alternative Cost Curves


      The firm explicitly designing its manufacturing process for flex-
ibility, rapid setups, and short lots (general purpose, computer-con-
trolled machines, for example) may well enjoy cost advantages over
the high-volume producer for servicing custom orders or small lots.
A viable strategy in such a situation is to focus on orders in the cir-
cled area of Figure 11-1. Cost curve differences allowing such a
strategy may be based on small orders, custom orders, particular
small-volume product varieties, and others. Wickham Skinner has
246                                              COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

described how such manufacturing strategies can be implemented in
his concept of the "focused f a ~ t o r y . " ~


      COMPETING INTERNATIONALLY

     A firm may escape maturity by competing internationally where
the industry is more favorably structured. This straightforward ap-
proach has been practiced, for example, by Crown Cork and Seal in
metal containers and crowns, and Massey-Ferguson in farm imple-
ments. Sometimes equipment that is obsolete in the home market
can be used quite effectively in international markets, greatly lower-
ing the costs of entry there. Or industry structure may be a great deal
more favorable internationally, with less sophisticated and powerful
buyers, fewer competitors, and the like. The drawbacks to this strat-
egy are the familiar risks of international competition and the fact
that it may only postpone maturity rather than deal with it.


      SHOULD TRANSITION BE ATTEMPTED AT ALL?

      It should not be taken as given that the strategic shifts required
to compete successfully in a maturing industry should be attempted
at all, in view of the substantial and perhaps new types of resources
and skills that may be required. The choice depends not only on re-
sources but also on the number of other firms who have the capabil-
ity to keep playing in the industry, the expected duration of the tur-
moil in the industry while adjustments to maturity are made, and the
future prospects for industry profits (which depend on future indus-
try structure).
      For some companies, a disinvestment strategy may be better
than making further reinvestments with an uncertain payout-which
is what Dean Foods has done in fluid milk. Emphasis at Dean has
been on cost cutting and highly selective investments in cost-saving
equipment rather than on expansion of market position.
      Industry leaders may or may not be in the best position to make
the adjustments required by transition if they have substantial iner-
tia built into their strategies and strong ties to the strategic require-
ments of the growth phase of the industry's development. The flex-
ibility of a smaller firm may prove advantageous in transition,
'Skinner (1974).
The Transition to Industty Maturity                                  247

provided the resources needed to adjust are available. The small firm
may also be able to segment the market easier. Similarly, a new firm
entering the industry during the transition phase, possessing finan-
cial and other resources but no ties to the past, is often able to estab-
lish a strong position. The turmoil caused by the transition period
yields opportunities for the potential entrant provided long-run in-
dustry structure is favorable.



Strategic Pitfalls in Transition

      In addition to failure to recognize the strategic implications of
transition described above, there is the tendency for firms to fall
prey to some characteristic strategic pitfalls:
     1. A company's selfperceptions and its perception of the in-
dustry. Companies develop perceptions or images of themselves and
their relative capabilities ("we are the quality leader"; "we provi.de
superior customer service"), which are reflected in the implicit as-
sumptions that form the basis of their strategies (see Chapter 3).
These self-perceptions may be increasingly inaccurate as transition
proceeds, buyers' priorities adjust, and competitors respond to new
industry conditions. Similarly, firms have assumptions about the in-
dustry, competitors, buyers, and suppliers which may be invalidated
by transition. Yet altering these assumptions, built up through ac-
tual past experience, is sometimes a difficult process.
     2. Caught in the middle. The problem of being caught in the
middle described in Chapter 2 is particularly acute in transition to
maturity. Transition often squeezes out the slack that has made this
strategy viable in the past.
      3. The cash trap-investments to build share in a mature mar-
ket. Cash should be invested in a business only with the expectation
of being able to remove it later. In a mature, slow-growing industry,
the assumptions required to justify investing new cash in order to
build market share are often heroic. Maturity of the industry works
against increasing or maintaining margins long enough to recoup
cash investments down the road, by making the present value of cash
inflows justify the outflows. Thus businesses in maturity can be cash
traps, particularly when a firm is not in a strong market position but
is attempting to build a large market share in a maturing market.
The odds are against it.
248                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

      A related pitfall is placing heavy attention on revenues in the
maturing market instead of on profitability. This strategy may have
been desirable in the growth phase, but it usually faces diminishing
returns in maturity. Hertz may very well have had this problem in
the late 1960s, offering RCA much opportunity for achieving a prof-
it turnaround in the mid-1970s.
      4. Giving up market share too easily in favor of short-run prof-
its. In the face of the profit pressures in transition, there seems to be
a tendency for some companies to try to maintain the profitability of
the recent past-which is done at the expense of market share or by
foregoing marketing, R&D, and other needed investments, which in
turn hurts future market position. Unwillingness to accept lower
profits during transition can be seriously shortsighted if economies
of scale will be significant in the mature industry. A period of lower
profits may be inevitable while industry rationalization occurs, and a
cool head is necessary to avoid overreaction.
      5. Resentment and irrational reaction to price competition
("we will not compete on price"). It is often difficult for firms to ac-
cept the need for price competition after a period in which it has not
been necessary, and therefore, when avoiding it may have been a sa-
cred rule. Some managements even view price competition as un-
seemly or beneath their dignity. This can be a dangerous reaction to
transition, when a firm willing to price aggressively may be able to
take share that will be crucial to establishing a low-cost position for
the long run.
      6.. Resentment and irrational reaction to changes in industry
practices ("they are hurting the industryy'). Changes in industry
practices, such as marketing techniques, production methods, and
the nature of distributor contracts are often an inevitable part of
transition. They may be important to the industry's long-run poten-
tial, but there is often resistance to them. Substitutions of machines
for hand methods are resisted, as they have been in some sporting
goods businesses, and firms are unwilling to begin aggressively mar-
keting their products ("marketing does not work in this industry; it
requires personal selling"). And so on. Such resistance can put a
firm seriously behind in adapting to the new competitive environ-
ment.
      7. Overemphasis on "creative, " "new" products rather than
improving and aggressively selling existing ones. Although past suc-
cess in the early and growth phases of an industry may have been
built on research and on new products, the onset of maturity often
The Transition to Industry Maturity                                  249

means that new products and applications are harder to come by. It
is usually appropriate that the focus of innovative activity should
change, putting standardization rather than newness and fine tuning
at a premium. Yet this development is not satisfying to some com-
panies and is often resisted.
     8. Clinging to "higher quality" as an excuse for not meeting
aggressive pricing and marketing moves of competitors. High qual-
ity can be a crucial company strength, but quality differentials have
a tendency to erode as an industry matures (see Chapter 8). Even if
they remain, more knowledgeable buyers may be willing to trade
quality for lower prices in a mature business where they have pur-
chased the products before. Yet it is difficult for many companies to
accept the fact that they do not possess the highest quality product or
that their quality is unnecessarily high.
     9. Overhanging excess capacity. As a result of capacity over-
shooting demand, or because of capacity increases that inevitably
accompany the plant modernization required to compete in the ma-
ture industry, some firms may have some excess capacity. Its mere
presence creates both subtle and unsubtle pressures to utilize it, and
it can be used in ways that will undermine the firm's strategy. For ex-
ample, overhanging capacity can push a firm into the middle, in the
terminology of Chapter 2, rather than maintaining a more focused
approach. Or it can lead to managerial pressures to fall into the cash
trap. It is often desirable to sell off or scrap excess capacity rather
than hold it. Obviously, however, capacity should not be sold to
anyone who will use it in the same business.


Organizational Implications of Maturity

     We tend to think of requirements for organizational change as
resulting from major shifts in strategy and from evolution in the size
and diversification of a company. The necessary fit between organi-
zational structure and a firm's strategy holds equally true in industry
maturity, and the transition to maturity can be one of the critical
points in the development of an organizational structure and sys-
tems. Particularly in the area of control and motivational systems,
there are some subtle adjustments that must take place.
     On the strategic level, we have discussed how a firm must be
Prepared to adjust its key competitive priorities to the often differing
250                                                       COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

requirements of industry maturity. More attention to costs, cus-
tomer service, and true marketing (as opposed to selling) may be re-
quired. Reduced attention to introducing new products versus refin-
ing old ones may be necessary. Less "creativity" and more attention
to detail and pragmatism is often what is needed in the mature bus-
iness.
      These shifts in competitive focus obviously require changes in
organizational structure and systems to support them. Systems de-
signed to highlight and control different areas of the business are
necessary. Tighter budgeting, stricter control, and new performance-
based incentive systems may well be required in the mature business,
all more formal than those used previ~usly.~   Control of financial as-
sets such as inventory and accounts receivable may take on greater
importance. All these sorts of changes have been key to successful
company turnarounds in industries such as nursing homes and recre-
ational vehicles that have recently gone through transition.
      More coordination across functions and among manufacturing
facilities must often occur for the company to be cost competitive.
For example, industry maturity means that regional plants hereto-
fore operating independently may well have to be tied together and
better coordinated, requiring not only new systems and procedures
but also major changes in the plant managers' jobs.
      There can sometimes be resistance to changes along these lines.
The company that has prided itself on pioneering and on a high-
quality product may find it very difficult to engage in "distasteful"
price competition and in aggressive marketing, as was discussed pre-
viously. Competition along these dimensions is often resented deep
down in the organization, all the way to the shop floor and the sales
force. Sacrificing quality for costs and close monitoring of costs are
resisted. Furthermore, new reporting requirements, new controls,
new organizational relationships, and other changes are sometimes
seen as a loss in personal autonomy and as a threat. A company
must be prepared to reeducate and remotivate personnel at all levels
as it enters the maturity stage.
61n the transition from an entrepreneurally managed to a more professionally
 managed company, organization and systems must become more rationalized, for-
 mal, and impersonal. Whereas this transition is difficult in itself, it is important t~
 note that the organizational transition required to cope with industry maturity may
 also involve a different structure and different focal points for the key managerial
 systems, as a result of the changes in the competitive environment brought on by
 maturity. If these two transitions have to occur simultaneously in a company, it
 raises a serious challenge.
The Transition to Industry Maturity                                  251

      General management must also be aware of subtle changes in
the motivational climate in the organization that can accompany
transition to industry maturity. In the growth period which preceded
transition, opportunities for advancement have usually been great,
excitement has been high for the participants in the rapidly growing
enterprise, and intrinsic job satisfaction has obviated the need for
much in the way of formal internal mechanisms to build company
loyalty. Yet in the more mature competitive environment, there is
less growth, less glamour, less excitement, and the spirit of pioneer-
ing and uniqueness tends to fade. This development raises a number
of extremely difficult problems for general management.
      1. Scaled down expectations for financial performance. The
standards for acceptable growth and profits must often be reduced
in managers' minds. If managers try to meet the old standards, they
may take actions that are extremely dysfunctional for the long-run
health of the company in the mature market unless it has an extreme-
ly strong market position. The scaling-down process is difficult be-
cause a strong tradition of achieving financial results may have been
built up through past successes by the organization. I hasten to add
that general management of the organization is subject to the same
problems in revising its own expectations.
      2 . More discipline from the organization. All the common envi-
ronmental changes in a mature industry previously described allow
less slack and require greater discipline from the organization in exe-
cuting its chosen strategy. This need extends to all layers of the orga-
nization in tangible and intangible ways.
      3. Scaled-down expectations for advancement. Past rates of
personal advancement are unlikely to be possible in the more mature
environment. Yet managers may have learned to define success in
terms of advancement at the old pace. Many managers may leave
during the transition process for these reasons, and the pressure the
organization places on the general manager can be great. The chal-
lenge for general management is to find new ways to motivate and
reward personnel. The pressure of transition in this area leads some
companies to diversify to provide the growth and advancement pos-
sibilities of those of the past. Diversifying solely for this reason can
be a serious error.
     4. More attention on the human dimension. In the process of
adapting to the new climate of the mature industry, and the shifting
strategic priorities implied, there will usually be a need to place more
attention internally on the human dimension. Organizational mecha-
nisms are required to build more company identification and loyal-
ty, and more subtle motivational devices must be developed than
those that have sufficed during the rapid growth phase. Support and
encouragement internally are needed to replace the external stimuli
and rewards of the past and to provide a backstop for the difficult
internal adjustments in organizational climate that may be required.
     5. Recentralization. The pressures industry maturity places on
cost control may sometimes require the reversal of previous moves
to create autonomous profit centers, at the plant level and elsewhere,
This is particularly true if the profit center organization was de-
signed to facilitate the addition of new products or to open up new
markets as the industry developed.
     A shift back to a more functional organization increases central
control, can eliminate substantial overhead, and can enhance the
possibilities for coordination among units. Coordination may be-
come more important than entrepreneurship in the mature business.
Crown Cork and Seal achieved a dramatic turnaround by using this
approach, troubled Texfi is now attempting it in its textiles,' and
Burger King is using it to take on McDonald's.


Industry Transition and the General Manager

     Industry transition to maturity, especially when it requires
many of the strategic adjustments described above, often signals a
new "way of life" in a company. The excitement of rapid growth
and pioneering are replaced by the need to control costs, compete on
price, market aggressively, and so on. This change in the way of life
has important implications for the general manager.
     The atmosphere of the company may well change in ways the
general manager may find undesirable. He or she cannot provide as
much opportunity and advancement for personnel and must increas-
ingly measure performance closely through detailed and formal sys-
tems. The old informality and personal friendships may be hard to
maintain in such an environment. The skills required of the general
manager shift as the key requirements of the organization shift.
Tight cost control, cross-functional coordination, marketing, and so
on may be very different skills than those required to build the orga-
'Business Week, August IS, 1977.
The Transition to Industry Maturity                                            253

nization in a rapidly growing industry. These new skills are both
strategic and administrative, and thus the adaptation is doubly diffi-
      Finally, the mood or feeling of excitement and pioneering the
general manager has felt in the past may give way to one of increas-
ing pressure to keep up and concern for survival. Often a sort of
malaise appears.
     Thus transition to maturity is often a difficult period for a gen-
eral manager, particularly for the founding entrepreneur but not ex-
clusively so. Some unfortunate but common outcomes are as
follows:
       Denies transition: The general manager fails to recognize and
       accept the changes required or lacks the required skills. As a -
       result, the historical strategy and organizational arrange-
       ments are doggedly continued. This sort of rigidity is a com-
       mon reaction to strategic difficulty not only during transition
       but also in other adverse company situation^.^
       Leaves active management: Recognizing that either the new
       way of life in the company is no longer satisfactory or that his
       or her managerial skills are inadequate for the new environ-
       ment, the general manager relinquishes control.
     The implication of industry transition for the general manager
carries an important message not only for the general manager him-
self but also for the corporate management of diversified compan-
ies. The standards for measuring business unit managers usually
need to change in a mature business, as do the skills and orientation
of the general manager. It may be, for these reasons, that rotation of
managers is appropriate as a division enters maturity. There is a ten-
dency in diversified companies to apply the same standards to divi-
sion managers regardless of their fundamentally different strategic
situations and to expect managers skilled in one setting to manage
well in another. Attention to the managerial implications of transi-
tion to maturity is one way to avoid these difficulties.




'In the classic transition from an entrepreneurally to professionally managed
 company, the adaptation in skills required of the general manager is largely along
 organizational and administrative lines only.
'See Porter (1976b).
Competitive Strategy in
Declining Industries



 For purposes of strategic analysis, declining industries are treated
 here as those that have experienced an absolute decline in unit sales
 over a sustained period.' Thus, decline cannot be ascribed to the bus-
 iness cycle or to other short-term discontinuities, such as strikes or
 material shortages, but represents a true situation in which end-game
 strategies must be developed. There have always been industries in
 decline, but the prevalence of this difficult structural environment
 has probably increased with slower world economic growth, product
 substitution resulting from rapid cost inflation, and continued tech-
 nological change in areas like electronics, computers, and chemicals.
    Although deceptively familiar as a phase of the product life cycle,
 declining industries have not received much study. The decline phase
 of a business is characterized in the life-cycle model as one of shrink-
 ing margins, pruning product lines, falling R&D and advertising,
 and a dwindling number of competitors. The accepted strategic pre-
 scription for decline is a "harvest" strategy, that is, eliminating in-
.vestment and generating maximum cash flow from the business,
'This chapter has benefited greatly from work by Kathryn Rudie Harrigan, mY
 student at Harvard and now Assistant Professor of Business at the University of
 Texas at Dallas.
competitive Strategy in Declining Industries                                  255

followed by eventual divestment. The product portfolio models in
common use for planning today yield the same advice for declining
industries: Do not invest in slow or negative-growth, unfavorable
markets but pull cash out.
      However, in-depth study of a wide spectrum of declining indus-
tries suggests that the nature of competition during decline as well as
the strategic alternatives available to firms for coping with decline
are a great deal more complex. Industries differ markedly in the way
competition responds to decline; some industries age gracefully,
whereas others are characterized by bitter warfare, prolonged excess
capacity, and heavy operating losses. Successful strategies vary just
as widely. Some firms have reaped high returns from strategies ac-
tually involving heavy reinvestment in a declining industry that make
their businesses better cash cows later. Others have avoided losses
subsequently borne by their competitors by exiting before the decline
was generally recognized, and not harvesting at all.
      This chapter will apply the analytical tools of Part I to the pecu-
liar environment of declining industries, in cases where the decline it-
self is beyond the control of incumbent firms.2 First I will describe
the structural conditions that determine the nature of competition
during the decline phase and the hospitability of the industry to
those firms that remain. Next I will identify in some detail the gen-
eric strategic alternatives (end-game strategies) available to the firm
in decline. The chapter will conclude with some principles for choos-
ing a strategy.



Structural Determinants of Competition in Decline

     In the context of the analysis in Chapter 1, a number of struc-
tural factors take on a particular importance in determining the na-
ture of competition in the decline phase of an industry. Shrinking in-
dustry sales make this phase potentially volatile. However, the ex-
tent to which the incipient competitive pressure erodes profitability
depends on some key conditions, which influence how easily capaci-
'Decline may sometimes be reversed through innovations, cost reduction, and shifts
 in other circumstances. Some approaches to staving off decline are discussed in
 Chapter 8. Our focus in this chapter is on industries in which available remedies
 have been exhausted and the strategic problem thus becomes coping with decline.
ty will leave the industry and how bitterly the remaining firms will
try to stem the tide of their own shrinking sales.


     CONDITIONS OF DEMAND

     The process by which demand declines and the characteristics of
the market segments that remain have a major influence on competi-
tion in the decline phase.


     The degree of uncertainty perceived by competitors (whether ra-
tionally or not) about whether demand will continue to decline is one
of the most potent factors affecting end-game competition. If firms
believe that demand might revitalize or level off, they will probably
try to hold onto their positions and remain in the industry. Their ef-
forts to maintain position despite shrinking sales will have a high
probability of leading to bitter warfare. This situation has been oc-
curring in the rayon industry, where there have been continued and
probably justified hopes that rayon's losses to nylon and steel in the
tire cord market, and losses to other fibers in the textile market,
could be reversed. On the other hand, if all firms are certain that in-
dustry demand will continue to decline, it will facilitate the process
of withdrawing capacity from the market in an orderly fashion. In
acetylene, for example, it became quickly clear that the skyrocketing
cost of natural gas would make ethylene a lower-cost substitute for
many of the chemical processes using acetylene. Here the least effi-
cient firms began early to develop strategies for withdrawal.
     Firms may well differ in their perceptions of future demand;
some firms may foresee a higher probability of revitalization, and
these firms will be prone to hang on. Furthermore, there is some evi-
dence in case histories of declining industries that a firm's perception
of the likelihood of future decline is influenced by its position in the
industry and its exit barriers. The stronger the firm's position or the
higher the exit barriers it faces in leaving, the more optimism seems
to exist in its projections of the future.


   The more slowly decline is proceeding, the more it may be
masked by short-run factors in firms' analyses of their positions,
competitive Strategy in Declining Industries                        257

and the more uncertainty there usually is about future decline. Un-
certainty greatly increases the volatility of this phase. If demand is
declining precipitously, on the other hand, firms have a hard time in
justifying optimistic future projections. In addition, large declines in
sales make abandonments of whole plants or divestiture of whole di-
visions more likely, which can rapidly adjust industry capacity
downward. The smoothness of decline also plays a part in uncertain-
ty. If the industry's sales are inherently erratic such as in rayon and
acetate, it may be difficult to separate the downward trend in sales
from the confusion caused by period-to-period fluctuations.
     The rate of decline is partly a function of the pattern in which
firms actually decide to withdraw capacity from the business. In
industrial businesses whose product is an important input to cus-
tomers, demand can decline precipitously if one or two major pro-
ducers decide to withdraw. Customers fear for the continued avail-
ability of a key input, and they are prone to shift to a substitute more
quickly than otherwise. So firms that announce exit early can strong-
ly influence the rate of decline. The rate also has a tendency to accel-
erate as decline proceeds because shrinking volume raises costs and
perhaps prices.


     As demand declines, the nature of the pockets of demand that
remain plays a major role in determining the profitability of the re-
maining competitors. These may offer more or less favorable pros-
pects for profitability, based on a complete structural analysis like
that outlined in Chapter 1. For example, one of the major remaining
pockets of demand in the cigar industry is the premium segment.
This segment is quite immune to substitution, has price-insensitive
buyers, and is amenable to the creation of high levels of product dif-
ferentiation. The firms that can maintain a position in this segment
are well placed to earn above-average returns, even as the industry
declines, because they can defend their positions from competitive
forces. In the leather industry, upholstery leathers have been a sur-
viving pocket in which technology and differentiation have the same
effect. In acetylene, on the other hand, the market segments where
acetylene has not been displaced by ethylene are threatened by still
other substitutes, and in those markets acetylene is a commodity
Product subject to price warfare because of its high fixed manufac-
turing costs. Thus profit potential in the remaining pockets is pretty
dismal.
     In general, an end game can be profitable for the survivors if
the remaining pockets of demand involve price-insensitive buyers or
those who have little bargaining power, because they have high
switching costs or other traits like those discussed in Chapter 6.
Commonly, remaining demand is price-insensitive when it is replace-
ment demand and when demand from the manufacturers of the orig-
inal equipment has disappeared. The profitability of the end game
will also depend on the vulnerability of remaining pockets of de-
mand to substitutes and to powerful suppliers, as well as the pres-
ence of mobility barriers, which protect firms serving the remaining
segments from attack by firms seeking to replace sales lost in disap-
pearing segments.


    Industry demand declines for a number of different reasons,
which have implications for competition during the decline phase:

     Technological Substitution. One source of decline is substitute
products created through technological innovation (electronic calcu-
lators for sliderules) or made prominent by shifts in relative costs
and quality (synthetics for leather). This source can be threatening to
industry profits because increasing substitution usually depresses
profits at the same time it cuts into sales. This negative effect on
profits is mitigated if there are pockets of demand in the industry
that are immune or resistant to the substitute and have favorable
characteristics in the sense previously described. Substitution may or
may not be accompan,ied by uncertainty over future demand, de-
pending on the industry.

     Demographics. Another source of decline is shrinkage in the
size of the customer group that purchases the product. In industrial
businesses, demographics cause decline by reducing demand in
downstream industries. Demographics as a source of decline is not
accompanied by the competitive pressure of a substitute product.
Thus if capacity can leave the industry affected by demographics in
an orderly way, surviving firms may have profit prospects compar-
able to those before decline. However, demographic shifts are often
subject to great uncertainty, which is destabilizing for competition in
decline as has been discussed.
competitive Strategy in Declining Industries                        259

     Shifts in Needs. Demand can fall because of sociological or
other reasons which change buyers' needs or tastes. For example,
cigar consumption has fallen in large part because of cigars' plum-
meting social acceptability. Like demographics, shifts in needs do
not necessarily lead to increased pressure of substitutes for remain-
ing sales. However, shifts in needs can also be subject to great uncer-
tainties, like those in cigars, which have led many firms to continue
to forecast a resurgence of demand. This situation is very threaten-
ing to profitability in decline.
     The cause of decline, then, gives clues about the probable de-
gree of uncertainty firms perceive about future demand as well as
some indications about the profitability of serving the remaining
segments.


    EXIT BARRIERS

     Crucial to competition in declining industries is the manner in
which capacity leaves the market. Just as there are barriers to entry,
however, there are exit barriers which keep firms competing in de-
clining industries even though they are earning subnormal returns on
investment. The higher the exit barriers, then, the less hospitable the
industry will be to the firms that remain during decline.
     Exit barriers stem from a number of fundamental sources:


     If the assets of a business, either fixed or working capital or
both, are highly specialized to the particular business, company, or
location in which they are being used, this creates exit barriers by di-
minishing the liquidation value of the firm's investment in the busi-
ness. Specialized assets either must be sold to someone who intends
to use them in the same business (and if they are specialized enough,
to use them in the same location) or their value is greatly diminished
and they must often be scrapped. The number of buyers wishing to
use the assets in the same business is usually few, because the same
reasons that make the firm want to sell its assets in a declining mar-
ket will probably discourage potential buyers. For example, an acet-
ylene manufacturing complex or a rayon plant has such specialized
equipment that it must be sold to another owner for the same use or
scrapped. An acetylene plant, futhermore, is so difficult to disman-
tle and transport that the costs of doing so may equal or exceed the
scrap value. Once the acetylene and rayon industries began to de-
cline, the potential buyers willing to continue to operate the plants
up for sale were close to nonexistent; those plants that were sold
were sold at enormous discounts to book value and often to specula.
tors or desperate employee groups. Inventory in a declining industry
may also be worth very little, particularly if it normally turns over
very slowly.
      If the liquidation value of the assets of a business is low, it is
economically optimal for the firm to remain in the business even if
the expected discounted future cash flows are low. If the assets are
durable, the book value may greatly exceed the liquidation value.
Thus it is possible for a firm to earn a book loss but it be economi-
cally appropriate to remain in the business because the discounted
cash flows exceeded the opportunity cost of capital on the invest-
ment that could be released if the business were divested. Divesting
the business in any situation in which the book value exceeds the li-
quidation value also leads to a write-off, which has some deterring
effects on exit that will be discussed later.
      In assessing the exit barriers caused by asset specialization in a
particular business, the question is whether or not there are any mar-
kets for the assets as, or as part of, a going concern. Sometimes as-
sets can be sold to overseas markets at a different stage of economic
development, even though they have little value in the home country.
This move raises the liquidation value and lowers exit barriers.
Whether there are overseas markets or not, however, the value of
specialized assets will usually diminish as it becomes increasingly
clear that the industry is declining. For example, Raytheon, which
sold its vacuum tube-making assets in the early 1960s when tube de-
mand was strong for color TV sets, recovered a much higher liquida-
tion value than the firms that tried to unload their vacuum tube facil-
ities in the early 1970s, after the industry was clearly in its twilight
years. Few, if any, U.S. producers were interested in purchasing by
this later time, and foreign firms supplying vacuum tubes to less ad-
vanced economies either had already purchased tube-making equip-
ment or were in a much stronger bargaining position once U.S. de-
cline was obvious.


    Often substantial fixed costs of exiting elevate exit barriers by
reducing the effective liquidation value of a business. A firm often
competitive Strategy in Declining Industries                        261

must face the substantial costs of labor settlements; in fact in some
countries, like Italy, fixed costs of exit are effectively huge because
government does not sanction a loss of jobs. The costly full-time ef-
forts of a number of skilled managers, attorneys, and accountants
will usually be consumed for a significant period when a company is
divesting. Provision must sometimes be made for maintaining avail-
ability of spare parts to past customers after exit; this requirement
involves incurring a loss which, discounted, becomes a fixed cost of
exiting. Management or employees may need to be resettled and/or
gtrained. Breaking long-term contracts to purchase inputs or sell
          may involve substantial cancellation penalties, if they can
be abrogated at all. In many cases the firm must pay the cost of hav-
ing another firm fulfill such contracts.
     There are often also hidden costs of exit. Once the decision to
divest becomes known, employee productivity may be prone to sag
and financial results to deteriorate. Customers quickly pull out their
business, and suppliers lose interest in meeting promises. These sorts
of problems, also problems in executing a harvest strategy as will be
discussed later, may accelerate losses in the waning months of own-
ership and may prove to be significant costs of exit.
     On the other hand, sometimes exit can allow the firm to avoid
fixed investments it would otherwise have had to make. For exam-
ple, requirements to invest in order to comply with environmental
regulations may be avoided, as may other requirements to reinvest
capital just to stay in the industry. Requirements to make such in-
vestments promote exit, unless making them yields an equivalent or
greater increase in the discounted liquidation value of the firm, be-
cause they raise investment in the business without raising profits.


    Even if a diversified firm faces no exit barriers from economic
considerations relating solely to the particular business, it may face
barriers because the business is important to the company from an
overall strategic point of view:

     Interrelatedness: The business may be part of a total strategy
involving a group of businesses, and leaving it would diminish the
impact of the strategy. The business may be central to the corpora-
tion's identity or image. Exiting may hurt the company's relation-
ships with key distribution channels or may lower overall clout in
Purchasing. Exit may idle shared facilities or other assets, depending
262                                                    COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

on whether or not they have alternative uses by the firm or can be
rented on the open market. A firm terminating a sole supply rela-
tionship to a customer may not only foreclose sales of other products
to that customer but also hurt its chances in other businesses in
which it is relied on to supply key raw materials or components. Vi-
tal to the height of interrelatedness barriers is the corporation's abili-
ty to transfer resources freed up from the declining business to new
markets.

      Access to Financial Markets: Exiting may reduce the confi-
dence of the capital markets in the firm or worsen the firm's ability
to attract acquisition candidates (or buyers). If the divested business
is large relative to the total, its divestment may strongly reduce the
financial credibility of the firm. Even though a write-off is justified
economically from the point of view of the business itself, it may
negatively affect earnings growth or otherwise act to raise the cost of
capital.' Small losses over a period of years through operating the
business may be preferable to a single large loss from this stand-
point. The size of write-offs will obviously depend on how depre-
ciated the assets in the business are relative to their liquidation value,
as well as the ability of the firm to divest the business incrementally
as opposed to having to make a once and for all decision.

      Vertical Integration. If the business is vertically related to an-
other in the company, the effect on barriers to exit depends on
whether the cause of decline affects the entire vertical chain or just
one link. In the case of acetylene, its obsolescence made downstream
chemical synthesis businesses using acetylene as a feed stock obso-
lete. If the firm was in acetylene as well as in one or more of these
downstream processes, closing the acetylene plant either closed the
downstream facilities or forced the firm to find an outside supplier.
Although it might negotiate a favorable price from an outside sup-
plier because acetylene demand was falling, ultimately the firm
would have to exit from the downstream operations as well. Here the
exit decision would have to encompass the whole chain.
      In contrast if an upstream unit sold to a downstream unit an in-
put that had been made obsolete by a substitute, the downstream
unit would be strongly motivated to find an outside supplier to sell it
'A diversified firm may be able to utilize the tax loss from such a w~ite-off,which
 mitigates the negative cash flow impact of exit decisions. However, the write-off
 can still affect the financial markets.
competitive Strategy in Declining Industries                                     263

the substitute input, to avoid worsening its competitive position.
Thus the fact that the firm was integrated forward might hasten the
decision to exit because the business' strategic value had been elimi-
nated and it had become a strategic liability to the company as a
whole.


     The more related a business is to others in the company, partic-
ularly in terms of sharing assets or having a buyer-seller relation-
ship, the more difficult it can be to develop clear information about
the true performance of the business. Businesses performing poorly
can be hidden by the success of interrelated ones, and the firm might
consequently fail even to consider economically justified exit deci-
sions.


     Although the exit barriers described above are based on rational
economic calculations (or the inability to make them because of fail-
ures in information), the difficulty of exiting from a business seems
to go well beyond the purely e c o n ~ m i c A
                                             . ~consideration that turns
up in case study after case study is management's emotional attach-
ments and commitment to a business, coupled with pride in their
abilities and accomplishments and fears about their own future.
     In a single business company, exit costs managers their jobs,
and thus may be perceived as having some very unpleasant conse-
quences from a personal standpoint:
       A blow to pride, and the stigma of "giving up"
       Severance of an identification with the business that may be
       longstanding
       An external sign of failure which reduces job mobility
The longer the history and tradition of the firm and the lower the
likely mobility of senior management to other companies and
careers, the more serious these considerations are likely to be in de-
terring exit.
     Ample evidence suggests that personal and emotional barriers
also extend to top managements of diversified companies. Managers
'This statement presupposes that managements have some degree of effective
 control in order to act in a manner not in the best interest of the shareholders. In
 the extreme case in which managers are the shareholders, the opportunity for and
 likelihood of emotional barriers to exit is probably the greatest.
264                                                     COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

of the sick division are in much the same position as those of a single
business firm. It is difficult for them to propose divestment, so the
burden of deciding when to exit usually falls on top management.
Identifications with particular businesses can still be strong at the
top management level, however, particularly if they are long-stand-
ing or early businesses for the firm, are part of the historical core of
the firm, or were started or acquired with the incumbents' direct par-
ticipation. The decision of General Mills to divest its original busi-
ness (commodity flour) was surely an agonizing choice, for example,
and one that actually took many years to make.
      Just as identification can extend to top management of the di-
versified firm, so can pride and concern for external image. This is
particularly true, once again, when top management of the diver-
sified company played some personal role in the business that is a
candidate for divestment. Moreover, diversified companies have the
luxury, in comparison to single business firms, of funding poor per-
formers with profitable businesses, and sometimes of being able to
avoid disclosing poor results in a sick division. This ability perhaps
allows emotional factors to creep into decisions to divest in diver-
sified companies, even though ironically one of the benefits of diver-
sification is supposed to be a more detached, dispassionate review of
investments.
      Managerial exit barriers can be so strong that, as illustrated in a
number of studies of divestment case histories, divestments did not
occur until a change in top management took place even though the
unsatisfactory performance had been chronic.' Although this may
be the extreme situation, nearly everyone seems to agree that divest-
ments are probably the most unpalatable decision managements
have to make.6
      Managerial barriers can be reduced by experience with exit. For
example, they appear to be less prevalent in firms in the broad area
of chemicals, where technological failure and product substitution
are common; in firms in sectors where product lives are historically
short; or high-technology firms, who are more liable to perceive pos-
sibilities for new businesses to replace declining ones.


     In some situations, especially in foreign countries, closing down
a business is next to impossible because of government concern for
jobs and impact on the local community. The price of divestment
'See, for example. Gilmour (1973).
Tor a discussion of ways to cope with managerial barriers see Porter (1976).
competitive Strategy in Declining Industries                                     265
may be concessions from other businesses in the company or other
terms that are prohibitive. Even where government does not become
involved formally, community pressure and informal political pres-
sure not to exit can be very high, depending on the situation in which
the company finds itself.
      Closely akin is the social concern that many managements feel
for their employees and local communities, which may not translate
into dollars and cents but is nonetheless real. Divestment often
means putting people out of work, and it can mean crippling a local
economy. Such concerns often interplay with emotional barriers to
exit. In Quebec, for example, there has been tremendous social con-
cern about closing down pulp mills in the depressed Canadian dis-
solving pulp industry, many of which are in one-company towns.
Executives are torn with concern for communities, and formal and
informal government pressure has been brought to bear as well.'

     Because of any or all of these types of exit barriers, a firm may
continue to compete in an industry even though its financial per-
formance is subnormal. Capacity does not leave the industry as it
shrinks, and competitors grimly battle it out to survive. In a declin-
ing industry with high exit barriers, it is difficult even for the
strongest and healthiest firms to avoid being hurt in the process of
decline.


     The manner in which the assets of firms are disposed of can
strongly influence the potential profitability of a declining industry.
In the Canadian dissolving pulp industry, for example, a major
plant was not retired but sold to a group of entrepreneurs at a signif-
icant discount to book value. With a lower investment base, man-
agers of the new entity could make decisions on pricing and other
aspects of strategy that were rational for them but which severely
crippled the remaining firms. Selling the assets to the employees at a
discount can have the same effect. Thus if assets in a declining indus-
try are disposed of within the industry and not then retired, it is even
worse for subsequent competition than if the original owners of the
firms stayed in business.
     The situation in which government subsidies keep ailing firms
alive in declining industries is nearly as bad. Not only does capacity
not leave the market, but also the subsidized firm can depress profit
'For an in-depth discussion of the role of government in this declining industry, see
 Mehta (1978).
266                                                      COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

potential even further because it is basing its decisions on different
economics.


      VOLATILITY OF RIVALRY

     Because of falling sales, the decline phase of an industry will be
particularly susceptible to fierce price warfare among competitors.
Thus the conditions that determine the volatility of rivalry outlined
in Chapter 1 become particularly acute in influencing industry prof-
itability in decline. Warfare among the firms that remain will be
most intense in the decline phase in the following situations:
        the product is perceived as a commodity;
        fixed costs are high;
        many firms are locked by exit barriers into the industry;
        a number ,of firms perceive a high strategic importance in
        maintaining their position in the industry;
        the relative strengths of remaining firms are relatively
        balanced so that one or a few firms cannot easily win the
        competitive battle;
        firms are uncertain about their relative competitive strengths
        and many attempt ill-fated efforts at changing position.
       The volatility of rivalry in decline can be accentuated by sup-
pliers and distribution channels. The industry becomes a less impor-
tant customer to suppliers as it declines, which may affect prices and
s e r v i ~ eSimilarly,
             .~         the power of channels will increase as the indus-
try declines if distribution channels handle multiple firms, control
shelf space and shelf positioning, or can influence the ultimate cus-
tomer's purchase decision. In cigars, for example, shelf positioning
is crucial to success since cigars are an impulse item. The power of
distribution channels for cigars has increased markedly during the
industry's decline, and sellers' margins have correspondingly fallen.
       Perhaps the worst situation from the standpoint of industry ri-
valry during decline is the situation in which one or two firms are rel-
atively weak in terms of their strategic position in the industry, but
they possess significant overall corporate resources and a strong
strategic commitment to stay in the business. Their weaknesses force
them to attempt to improve position by desperate action, like price
'If the industry is a key customer of suppliers, however, they may attempt to help it
 fight off decline.
Competitive Strategy in Declining Industries                                    267

cuts, that threatens the entire industry. Their staying power forces
other firms to respond.


Strategic Alternatives in Decline

     Discussions of strategy during decline usually revolve around
disinvestment or harvest, but there is a range of strategic alterna-
tives-although not all are necessarily feasible in any particular in-
dustry. The range of strategies can be conveniently expressed in
terms of four basic approaches (shown in Figure 12-1) to competing
in decline, which the firm can pursue individually or in some cases
sequentially. In practice the distinctions among these strategies are
rarely neat, but there are advantages in discussing their objectives
and implications separately. These strategies vary greatly, not only
in the goals they seek to achieve, but also in their implications for in-
vestment. In the harvest and divest strategies, the business is man-
aged to produce disinvestment, the classic goal of decline strategies.
In leadership or niche strategies, however, the firm may actually
want to invest in strengthening its position in the declining industry.
     Putting aside until the next section the question of approaches
to matching the strategy to the industry and the particular firm, we
can explore the motivations for each strategic alternative and the
common tactical steps in implementing it.


FIGURE 12.1         Alternative Strategies
  Leadership                 Niche                Harvest          Divest Quickly
Seek a leadership      Create or defend      Manage a con-        Liquidate the in-
position in terms      a strong position     trolled disinvest-   vestment as early
of market share        in a particular       ment, taking ad-     in the decline
                       segment               vantage of           phase as possible
                                             strengths


     LEADERSHIP

     The leadership strategy is directed at taking advantage of a de-
clining industry whose structure is such that the remaining firm or
firms have the potential to reap above-average profitability and
leadership is feasible vis-a-vis competitors. The firm aims at being
268                                                      COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

either the only firm or one of few firms remaining in the industry.
Once this position is attained the firm switches to a holding position
or controlled harvest strategy, depending on the subsequent pattern
of industry sales.9 The premise underlying this strategy is that by
achieving leadership the firm is in a superior position to hold posi-
tion or harvest than it would be otherwise (taking into account the
investment required).
     Tactical steps that can contribute to executing the leadership
strategy are the following:
        investing in aggressive competitive actions in pricing, market-
        ing, or other areas designed to build market share and insure
        rapid retirement of capacity from the industry by other firms;
        purchasing market share by acquiring competitors or compet-
        itors' product lines at prices above their opportunities for sale
        elsewhere; this has the effect of reducing competitors' exit
        barriers;
        purchasing and retiring competitors' capacity, which again
        lowers exit barriers for competitors and insures that their ca-
        pacity is not sold within the industry; a leading firm in the
        mechanical sensor industry repeatedly offers to buy the assets
        of its weakest competitors for this reason;
        reducing competitors' exit barriers in other ways, such as by
        willingly manufacturing spare parts for their products, taking
        over long-term contracts, producing private label goods for
        them so that they can terminate manufacturing operations;
        demonstrating a strong commitment to staying in the busi-
        ness through public statements and behavior;
        demonstrating clearly superior strengths through competitive
        moves, which are aimed at dispelling competitors' thoughts
        of attempting to battle it out;
        developing and disclosing credible information that reduces
        uncertainty about future decline-which lowers the likeli-
        hood that competitors will overestimate the true prospects for
        the industry and remain in it;
        raise the stakes for other competitors to stay in the business
        by precipitating the need for reinvestment in new products or
        process improvements.
91nvesting in a slow or negatively growing market is generally risky because capital
 may be frozen and resistant to retrieval through profits or liquidation. The premise
 of the leadership strategy is that a firm's position and industry structure more than
 allow for recovery of reinvestment even though it is made late in the development
 of the industry.
Competitive Strategy in Declining Industries                        269

     NICHE

     The objective of this strategy is to identify a segment (or de-
mand pocket) of the declining industry that will not only maintain
stable demand or decay slowly but also has structural characteristics
allowing high returns. The firm then invests in building its position
in this segment. It may find it desirable to take some of the actions
listed under the leadership strategy in order to reduce competitors'
exit barriers or reduce uncertainty concerning this segment. Ulti-
mately the firm may either switch to a harvest or divest strategy.


     HARVEST

     In the harvest strategy, the firm seeks to optimize cash flow
from the business. It does this by eliminating or severely curtailing
new investment, cutting maintenance of facilities, and taking advan-
tage of whatever residual strengths the business has in order to raise
prices or reap benefits of past goodwill in continued sales, even
though advertising and research have been curtailed. Other common
harvest tactics include the following:
        reducing the number of models;
        shrinking the number of channels employed;
        eliminating small customers;
        eroding service in terms of delivery time (inventory), speed of
        repair, or sales assistance.
Ultimately the business is sold or liquidated.
     All businesses are not readily harvestable. The harvest strategy
presupposes some genuine past strengths on which the firm can live,
as well as an industry environment in the decline phase that does not
degenerate into bitter warfare. Without some strengths, the firm's
price increases, reduction in quality, cessation of advertising, or
other tactics will be met with severely reduced sales. If the industry
structure leads to great volatility during the decline phase, competi-
tors will seize on the firm's lack of investment to grab market share
or bid down prices, thereby eliminating the advantages to the firm of
lowering expenses through harvesting. Also, some businesses are
hard to harvest because there are few options for incremental ex-
pense reduction; an extreme example is one in which the plant will
quickly fail to operate if not maintained.
270                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

     A basic distinction in harvesting tactics are actions that are visi-
ble to the customer (e.g., price increases, lower advertising) and
those that are not (e.g., deferred maintenance, dropping marginal
accounts). The firm without relative strengths will probably have to
confine itself to invisible actions, which may or may not yield a sig-
nificant increase in cash flow depending on the nature of the bus-
iness.
     Of all the strategic alternatives in decline, the harvest strategy
creates perhaps the greatest demands from an administrative stand-
point, although these have been little explored in the literature. In
practice, a controlled liquidation is very difficult to manage because
of problems with employee morale and retention, suppliers' and cus-
tomers' confidence, and the motivations of executives. Classifying a
business as a dog to be harvested, based on portfolio planning tech-
niques like those described in Chapter 3, is not a great motivating de-
vice either. Although efforts have been made in companies like Gen-
eral Electric and Mead Corporation to adapt managerial incentives
to the peculiar conditions of harvest, the results of these efforts are
not yet clear, and the other administrative problems in harvesting re-
main, nevertheless.


      QUICK DIVESTMENT

      This strategy rests on the premise that the firm can maximize its
net investment recovery from the business by selling it early in de-
cline, rather than by harvesting and selling it later or by following
one of the other strategies. Selling the business early usually max-
imizes the value the firm can realize from the sale of the business, be-
cause the earlier the business is sold, the greater is the uncertainty
about whether demand will indeed subsequently decline and the
more likely other markets for the assets, like foreign countries, are
not glutted.
      In some situations it may be desirable to divest the business
before decline, or in the maturity phase. Once decline is clear, buyers
for the assets inside and outside the industry will be in a stronger
bargaining position. On the other hand, selling early also entails the
risk that the firm's forecast of the future will prove incorrect.
      Divesting quickly may force the firm to confront exit barriers
like image and interrelationships, although being early usually miti-
gates these factors to some extent. The firm can use a private label
competitive Strategy in Declining Industries                        271

strategy or sell product lines to competitors to help ease some of
these problems.



Choosing a Strategy for Decline

    The previous discussion provides a series of analytical steps to
determine the position of the firm in a declining industry:
       Is the structure of the industry conducive to a hospitable (po-
       tentially profitable) decline phase based on the conditions in
       Section I?
       What are the exit barriers facing each and every significant
       competitor? Who will exit quickly and who will remain?
       Of the firms that stay, what are their relative strengths for
       competing in the pockets of demand that will remain in the
       industry? How seriously must their position be eroded before
       exit is likely, given their exit barriers?
       What are the exit barriers facing the firm?
       What are the firm's relative strengths vis-a-vis the pockets of
       demand that remain?
     The process of selecting a strategy for decline is one of matching
the desirability of remaining in the industry with the firm's relative
position. The key strengths and weaknesses of the firm in determin-
ing its relative position are not necessarily those that have counted
earlier in the industry's development; instead they relate to the seg-
ments or pockets of demand that will remain and the particular con-
ditions of the decline phase in terms of the nature of rivalry. Also
central to the leadership or niche strategies is credibility in prompt-
ing the exit of competitors. Differently situated firms will have dif-
ferent optimal strategies for decline.
     A crude framework for viewing the firm's choice of strategies is
shown in Figure 12-2.
     When the industry structure is conducive to a hospitable decline
phase because of low uncertainty, low exit barriers, and so on, the
firm with strengths can either seek leadership or defend a niche, de-
pending on the structural desirability of competing in most of the re-
maining segments versus selecting one or two particular segments.
The firm with strengths has the clout to establish a leadership posi-
tion-competitors. that lose the battle will exit-and the industry's
                                                   COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

                          Has Strengths Relative        Lacks Strengths
                           to Competitors for       Relative to Competitors
                           Remaining Pockets        for Remaining Pockets


Favorable                      Leadership                 Harvest
Industry
                                   or                        or
Structure
for Decline
                                 Niche                 Divest Quickly

                                                                              -
Unfavorable
                                 Niche
Industry
Structure
                                  or                   Divest Quickly
for Decline                     Harvest

                     r




              /    Firm's Strategic
                   Needs to Remain
                   in the Business

FIGURE 12-2

structure yields rewards once such a position is achieved. When the
firm has no particular strengths, it will be unlikely to capture leader-
ship overall or in a niche, but it can take advantage of the favorable
industry to harvest profitably. It may choose to divest early depend-
ing on the feasibility of harvest and the opportunities for sale of the
business.
     When the industry is unfavorable for decline, because of high
uncertainty, high exit barriers for competitors, and/or conditions
leading to volatile end-game rivalry, investing to achieve leadership
is not likely to yield rewards, and a niche position may not either. If
the firm has a strong relative position, it is usually better off taking
advantage of it by shrinking to a protected niche and/or harvesting.
If the firm has no particular strengths, it is well advised to get out as
quickly as its exit barriers permit, because other firms stuck in the in-
dustry with high exit barriers will probably soon begin to attack its
position successfully.
     There is a third dimension to this simple framework, which is a
firm's strategic needs to remain in the business. Strategic needs for
cash flow, for example, may skew the decision toward harvest O r
early sale even though the other factors point to leadership. Opera-
tionally, the firm must assess the nature of its strategic needs and
overlay them with the other conditions for decline to determine the
right strategy.
competitive Strategy in Declining Industries                         273

      There may be advantages to an early commitment to one decline
strategy or another. An early commitment to leadership may provide
the signals necessary to encourage competitors to exit and the timing
advantage necessary to achieve leadership. An early commitment to
divestment yields the benefits that have been discussed. Postponing a
choice of decline strategy tends to eliminate the polar options and
forces the firm toward either niche or harvest.
      A key part of strategy in declining industries, particularly ag-
gressive strategies, is to find ways to encourage particular competi-
tors out of the industry. Some ways of doing so are discussed under
the leadership option earlier. Sometimes the actual exit of a competi-
tor with high market share may be necessary before an aggressive de-
cline strategy makes sense. In such cases, the firm may want to bide
its time by harvesting until the major competitor resolves the exit de-
cision one way or another. If the leader decides to exit, the firm can
be prepared to invest, and if the leader stays, the firm may continue
to harvest or divest immediately.


Pitfalls in Decline

     Finding the firm's position on Figure 12-2 requires a great deal
of subtle analysis, and many firms violate the basic consistency be-
tween industry structure and strategic choice embodied in the figure.
Study of declining industries also reveals a number of other potential
pitfalls.

      Failure to Recognize Decline. With the benefit of hindsight, it
is all too easy to admonish firms for being overly optimistic about
the prospects for revitalization of their declining industries. Yet dis-
counting for legitimate uncertainty about the future, there seems to
be a failure in some companies to look objectively at the prospects of
decline, either because of long identification with the industry or
overly narrow perception of substitute products. The presence of
high exit barriers may also subtly affect how managers perceive their
environment; they look for optimistic signs since pessimistic ones are
so painful. From my examination of many declining industries, the
firms that seem to be the most objective about managing the decline
Process are those that also participate in the substitute industry.
They have a clearer perception concerning the prospects of the sub-
stitute product and the threat of decline.
274                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

      A War of Attrition. Warfare with competitors having high ex-
it barriers usually leads to disaster. Such competitors are forced to
respond vigorously to moves and will not yield position without a
significant investment.

     Harvesting without Clear Strengths. Unless industry structure
is very favorable for the decline phase, harvesting strategies by firms
without clear strengths usually collapse. Customers quickly take
their business elsewhere once marketing or service deteriorates or
prices are raised. In the process of harvesting, the resale value of the
business may also be dissipated. The competitive and administrative
risks of harvesting make this strategy one that must be based on
clear justification.



Preparing for Decline

     If the firm can forecast industry conditions in the decline phase,
it may be able to improve its position by taking steps during the ma-
turity phase that greatly improve its position for decline; sometimes
these moves cost little in terms of strategic position in maturity.
        Minimize investments or other actions that will raise exit bar-
        riers from any of the sources outlined above.
        Place strategic emphasis on market segments that will be fa-
        vorable under decline conditions.
        Create switching costs in these segments.
Competition in
Global Industries




A global industry is one in which the strategic positions of competi-
tors in major geographic or national markets are fundamentally af-
fected by their overall global positions.' IBM's strategic position in
competing for computer sales in France and Germany, for example,
is significantly improved by the technology and marketing skills de-
veloped elsewhere in the company combined with a coordinated
worldwide manufacturing system. To analyze competition in a glo-
bal industry, it is necessary to examine industry economics and com-
petitors in the various geographic or national markets jointly rather
than individually.
      Global industries require a firm to compete on a worldwide, co-
ordinated basis or face strategic disadvantages. Some industries that
are international in the sense of being populated by multinational
companies do not have the essential characteristics of a global indus-
try. In many consumer packaged food products, for example, multi-
national firms like Nestle, Pet, and CPC have operations in many
countries. Except to a limited extent in product development, how-
'This chapter has benefited from assistance by Thomas Hout, Eileen Rudden, and
 Eric Vogt, of The Boston Consulting Group, as well as Neal Bhadkamkar,
 research assistant and MBA, 1979.
276                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY
         *   -
ever, subsidiaries are autonomous and the competitive balance is
struck on a country-by-country basis. A firm need not compete in-
ternationally to be successful. Thus, industries with multinational
competitors are not necessarily global industries. It must be recog-
nized, though, that "globalness" is inevitably a matter of degree,
since the extent of the strategic advantages that accrue to firms that
compete internationally can vary a great deal from industry to in-
dustry.
      An increasing number of industries have become or are becom-
ing global industries in the 1970s, and this important structural set-
ting is likely to become even more prevalent. By any measure, trade
and foreign investment have risen significantly, and the shifts in
strategic position that have accompanied industry evolution to glo-
bal status are both dramatic and rapid. Television receivers, motor-
cycles, sewing machines, and automobiles are some particularly visi-
ble though not atypical examples. The movement to globalization
can be compared to the shift in U.S. industries from regional to na-
tional competition between 1890 and 1930; as we will indicate, many
of the fundamental causes are the same. Moreover, the movement
toward global competition might be just as far-reaching. Managers
in nearly every industry must consider global competition a possibil-
ity if not already a reality.
      There are many differences in competing internationally versus
nationally, and these are usually emphasized in developing interna-
tional competitive strategy.
       factor cost differences among countries;
       differing circumstances in foreign markets;
       different roles of foreign governments;
       differences in goals, resources, and ability to monitor foreign
       competitors.
However, the structural factors and market forces operating in glo-
bal industries are the same as those in more domestic industries.
Structural analysis in global industries must encompass foreign
competitors, a wider pool of potential entrants, a broader scope of
possible substitutes, and increased possibilities that firms' goals and
personalities will differ as well as their perceptions of what is strate-
gically important. But the same five competitive forces described in
Chapter 1 are at work, and the same underlying structural factors
determine their strength. As we will see, most successful global strat-
competition in Global Industries                                     277

egies have been based on recognition of these market forces, in their
somewhat different (and more complex) context.
     This chapter will draw on the conceptual base established in
Part I to examine some of the particular economic and competitive
issues that arise in global industries. The central issue to be examined
can be framed in both positive and negative terms. Does the firm
gain a strategic advantage from competing on a global basis in its in-
dustry? How threatened will the firm be by international competi-
tion? In examining this issue, I will first develop the structural condi-
tions that promote competition on a global basis, as well as the
impediments to global competition. This analysis is an essential
building block for understanding the evolution of industries to glo-
bal status, including the environmental changes and strategic inno-
vations of firms which can trigger global competition. Within this
context I will consider some important strategic issues in competing
in global industries, and alternative strategies for doing so. Finally,
some trends that may affect global competition will be explored, in-
cluding a look at the circumstances that promote or impede competi-
tion from firms of newly developed countries (NDC's) like Korea
and Singapore, which have become increasingly important fixtures
in global industries.


Sources and Impediments to Global Competition

      Firms can participate in international activities through three
basic mechanisms: licensing, export, and foreign direct investment.
Usually a firm's first foray overseas involves export or licensing, and
only after it has gained some international experience will it consider
foreign direct investment. Export or foreign direct investment will be
present in industries where competition is truly global. Major flows
of exports among many countries are a reliable sign of global com-
petition, but major direct foreign investment in an industry may not
be. These investments can consist of essentially independent subsidi-
aries in foreign countries, with each subsidiary's competitive posi-
tion depending essentially on its assets and particular circumstances
in its country of location.
      Fundamentally, an industry becomes a global industry because
there are economic (or other) advantages to a firm competing in a
278                                                       COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

coordinated way in many national markets. There are a number of
distinct sources of such global strategic advantage, as well as impedi-
ments to achieving them.2 The task for the analyst is to assess these
items for the particular industry under study, understanding either
why it is not global or, conversely, which sources of global advan-
tage have outweighted the impediments.


      SOURCES OF GLOBAL COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE

     The sources of global advantage stem broadly from four causes:
conventional comparative advantage, economies of scale or learning
curves extending beyond the scale or cumulative volume achievable
in individual national markets, advantages from product differentia-
tion, and the public-good character of market information and tech-
n01ogy:~

     Comparative Advantage. The existence of comparative ad-
vantage is a classic determinant of global competition. When a coun-
try or countries have significant advantages in factor cost or factor
quality used in producing a product, these countries will be the sites
of production and exports will flow to other parts of the world. In
such industries, the strategic position of the global firm in those
countries possessing a comparative advantage is crucial to its world
position.

     Production Economies of Scale. If there are economies of
scale in production (or providing service) that extend beyond the size
of major national markets, the firm can potentially achieve a cost
advantage through centralized production and global competition.
For example, modern high-speed steel mills have a minimum effi-
cient scale that appears to be as much as 40 percent of worldwide de-
mand. Sometimes advantages of vertical integration are the key to
achieving global production economies, because the efficient scale of
the vertically integrated system is greater than the size of national
markets. Achieving production economies necessarily implies move-
ment of exports among countries.
'These parallel, albeit on a different level, the causes of industry fragmentation and
 ways of overcoming them discussed in Chapter 9.
3Rpublic good, such as a technological innovation, is something that can be used
 repeatedly at no cost once the initial investment has been made.
competition in Global Industries                                      279

     Global Experience. In technologies subject to significant cost
declines due to proprietary experience, the ability to sell similar
product varieties in many national markets can bring benefits. Cum-
ulative volume per model is greater if the model is sold in many na-
tional markets, leading to a cost advantage for the global competi-
tor. This situation has probably occurred in the manufacture of
light-duty lift trucks, in which Toyota has gained a commanding po-
sition. Global competition can allow faster learning, even if the
learning curve flattens at cumulative volumes achievable eventually
by competing in an individual geographic market. Since a company
potentially can gain experience by sharing improvements among
plants, a cost advantage from global competition potentially can be
gained even if production is not centralized but takes place in each
national market.

     Logistical Economies of Scale. If an international logistics
system inherently involves fixed costs that can be spread by supply-
ing many national markets, the global competitor has a potential
cost advantage. Global competition may also allow the achievement
of economies of scale in logistics that stem from the ability to use
more specialized systems, such as specialized cargo ships. For exam-
ple, Japanese firms have achieved significant cost savings in the use
of specialized carriers to transport raw materials and finished prod-
ucts in steel and autos. Operating at world volume may allow a com-
plete rethinking of logistical arrangements.

     Marketing Economies of Scale. Although many aspects of the
marketing function must inherently be carried out in each national
market, there may be potential marketing economies of scale that ex-
ceed the size of national markets in some industries. The most ob-
vious are in industries in which a common sales force is deployed
worldwide. In heavy construction and in the manufacture of aircraft
or turbine generators, for example, the sales task is highly complex
and is carried out infrequently with relatively few buyers. Thus the
global firm can spread the fixed costs of a group of highly skilled
and expensive salespersons over many national markets.
     There may also be potential marketing economies through glo-
bal use of proprietary marketing techniques. Since the knowledge
gained from one market can be used at no cost in other market^,^ the
'There may be costs of adapting the knowledge to the particular geographic
 market-see discussion later in this chapter.
                                                 COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

global firm can have a cost advantage. The McDonald's "formula"
or Timex's "torture test" marketing campaign have worked world-
wide, for example. Some brand names have carryover among geo.
graphic markets, although usually the firm must invest to establish
its brand name in each one. However, some brand names develop
recognition internationally through trade press, technical literature,
cultural prominence, or other reasons that do not require invest-
ments by the firm.

      Economies of Scale in Purchasing. When there are opportun-
ities to achieve economies of scale in purchasing as a result of bar-
gaining power or lower suppliers' cost in producing long runs, which
go beyond what is needed to compete in individual national markets,
the global firm will have a potential cost advantage. For example,
worldwide producers of television sets appear to be able to purchase
transistors and diodes at lower costs. Such an advantage is most
probable when the volumes purchased by the industry are moderate
compared to the size of the industry producing the raw materials or
components; if purchases are large, most bargaining leverage may
well have been exhausted. If the firm is engaged directly in raw mate-
rial extraction (minerals) or production (agricultural products), the
potential advantage is similar. If the efficient scale of mine for a par-
ticular mineral is greater than the firm's need for that mineral to
compete in a large national market, for example, the firm that mines
at efficient scale and competes globally will have a cost advantage.
However, the need to compete globally to achieve this advantage
presupposes that the firm cannot mine at efficient scale and then sell
excess minerals to other firms.

     Product Differentiation. In some businesses, particularly
technologically progressive ones, global competition can give the
firm an edge in reputation and credibility. In the high-fashion cos-
metics industry, for example, a firm significantly benefits from a
presence in Paris, London, and New York in order to have the image
to compete successfully in Japan.

     Proprietary Product Technology. Global economies can result
from the ability to apply proprietary technology in several national
markets. This ability is particularly important when economies of
scale in research are large relative to the sales of individual national
markets. Computers, semiconductors, aircraft, and turbines are in-
dustries in which technological advantages of global-scale firms ap-
competition in Global Industries                                       281

pear to be particularly great. Some advances in technology are so
costly as to virtually require global sales to recoup them. Global
              can also give the firm a series of taps into technological
developments worldwide which can improve its technological com-
petitiveness.

      Mobility of Production. An important special case of econo-
mies due to scale and sharing of proprietary technology arises where
the production of a product or service is mobile. For example, in
heavy construction the firm moves its crew from country to country
to build projects; oil tankers can carry oil anywhere in the world;
gismic crews, oil rigs, and consultants are also mobile. In such in-
dustries, fixed costs of creating and maintaining an organization and
developing proprietary technology can be readily spread over opera-
tions in many national markets. In addition, the firm can invest in
skilled people or mobile equipment whose employment would not be
justified by the demand for the product in any one national mar-
ket-hence another example of economies of scale exceeding single-
market size.
     Often the sources of global advantage occur in combination,
and there can be interactions among them. For example, production
economies can provide the basis for invasion of foreign markets,
which then leads to logistical economies or those from purchasing.
     The significance of each source of global advantage clearly de-
pends on one of two things. First, how significant to total cost is the
aspect of the business subject to global economies? Second, how sig-
nificant to competition is the aspect of the business in which the glo-
bal competitor has an edge? An advantage in an area that represents
a fairly low percentage of total costs (e.g., sales force) can still be ex-
tremely important to competitive success or failure in some indus-
tries. In this case, even a small improvement in cost or effectiveness
brought about by global competition can be significant.
     It is also important to note that all the sources of advantage also
imply thepresence of mobility barriers for global firms. This factor
will be important to our discussion of competitive issues in global in-
dustries.


     IMPEDIMENTS TO GLOBAL COMPETITION

    There are a variety of impediments to achieving these advan-
tages of global competition, and they can block the industry from
282                                                 COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

becoming a global industry altogether. Even when the advantages of
global competition outweigh the impediments overall, the impedi-
ments can still yield viable strategic niches for national firms that do
not compete globally. Some of these impediments are economic and
raise the direct cost of competing globally. Others do not necessarily
affect cost directly but raise the complexity of the managerial task.5
A third category relates to purely institutional or governmental re-
straints that do not reflect economic circumstances. Finally, some
impediments can relate solely to perceptual or resource limitations
of industry incumbent^.^


     Transportation and Storage Costs. Transport or storage costs
offset economies of centralized production, as well as the efficiency
of production in an integrated system involving specialized plants in
a number of countries and transshipment. For products like pre-
stressed concrete, hazardous chemicals, and fertilizer, high transport
costs mean that plants must be built in each market, even though
production costs alone might be reduced by plants whose scale ex-
ceeds individual national market needs. Competition is essentially
on a market-by-market basis.

     Differing Product Needs. Global competition is impeded
when national markets demand different product varieties. Because
of differences in culture, state of economic development, income
levels, climate, and so on, national markets might demand product
varieties differing in trade-offs among cost, quality, and perform-
ance; in style; in size; and in other dimensions. For example, al-
though computerized sewing machines are being sold in the United
States and Western Europe, simpler pedal-powered varieties ade-
quately meet the needs of the developing world. Different legal stric-
tures, building codes, or technical standards might also compel dif-
ferent varieties to be demanded in different national markets even
though intrinsic product needs were otherwise the same. The need to
produce differing varieties impedes the achievement of global econ-
omies of scale or learning. It may also impede benefits from global
'The presence of these impediments in extreme form can mean that an industry is
 actually regional rather than national.
6This discussion focuses on the particular impediments to competition globally.
 The firm seeking entry into international markets must of course overcome the
 full range of entry barriers discussed elsewhere in this book.
 om petition in Global Industries

sourcing if the differing varieties imply differing requirements for
raw materials or components.
    The barrier to global competition raised by differing product
      clearly depends on the cost of altering products to fit national
markets. If required product differences are cosmetic or can other-
wise be accommodated without significant cost in an otherwise stan-
dard production process, the global firm can still reap most of the
global economies of scale.

     Established Distribution Channels. The need to gain access to
distribution channels in each national market can impede global
               When customers are numerous and individual purchase
amounts are small, the firm may well require access to already estab-
lished independent stocking distributors to compete successfully. In
electrical products, for example, any individual item, such as a load
center or circuit breaker, is too small a sale to justify in-house distri-
bution. In such situations it can be very difficult for a foreign firm to
penetrate entrenched distribution channels. The channels have little
incentive to substitute a foreign firm's line for a domestic one unless
a significant (and perhaps prohibitive) concession is made. If distri-
bution channels are less well established because the industry is new
or in flux, this bottleneck may not be so great. Also, if much volume
moves through a few channels, the foreign firm may have a better
chance of gaining access than if it must convince many small chan-
nels to take on its line.

     Sales Force. If the product requires a local manufacturer's di-
rect sales force, the international competitor confronts a potential
scale economy barrier, most severe if national competitors' sales
forces sell a wide line of products. This factor may be impeding
futher globalization in industries such as medical products in which
costly detailing to doctors is required.

     Local Repair. The need to offer local manufacturer's repair
can impede the international competitor in much the same way as the
need for a local sales force.

     Sensitivity to Lead Times. Sensitivity to lead times because of
short fashion cycles, rapidly moving technology, and the like tends
to work against global competition. The distance between the na-
tional market and centralized production, product development, or
284                                                     COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

marketing activities tends to create delays in responding to market
needs that can be unacceptable in businesses like fashion clothing
and distribution. This problem is accentuated if local product needs
differ.
     A related issue is the lead time required to physically transport
goods globally. This lead time generally translates to cost, since in
theory every good could be airshipped, although possibly at prohibi-
tive expense. The point is that even though the cost of moving a
product by a low-cost means might not preclude global shipment,
the lead times involved are too great to allow the responsiveness de-
manded by the market.

     Complex Segmentation Within Geographic Markets. Com-
plex price-performance trade-offs among competing brands by cus-
tomers in national markets have the same basic effect as national
product variety differences in impeding global competition. Com-
plex segmentation increases even more the need for product lines
with many varieties or the ability to produce custom products. De-
pending on the cost of producing additional varieties, it may effec-
tively preclude cost advantages from centralization of production in
an integrated manufacturing system. The local firm will be well
suited to perceive and adapt to the various segments of the local
market.

     Lack of World Demand. Global competition cannot occur if
demand does not exist in a significant number of major countries.
This situation could be present because the industry was new or be-
cause the product or service only fit the needs of an unusual cus-
tomer group which was present in only a few national markets.
     That industry newness might imply a lack of world demand fol-
lows from the so-called product life cycle of international trade.'
This concept holds that products are initially introduced in markets
where their attributes have the greatest value (e.g., labor-saving in-
novations in high-wage countries). Eventually product imitation and
diffusion result in demand in other countries, leading in turn to ex-
port by the pioneering firms and eventually foreign investment by
them. Overseas production by foreign firms may also begin once de-
mand spreads abroad and technology diffuses. Upon maturity of the
industry and subsequent product standardization and price competi-
tion, overseas firms may take prominent positions in the industry,
'For further discussion of this concept see Vernon (1966); Wells (1972).
competition in Global Industries                                   285

based on cost advantages they achieve by starting late in the indus-
try's development or from comparative advantages. All these argu-
ments suggest that generally some degree of maturity is necessary for
global competition to be present, although it seems clear that less
maturity is necessary today than a decade ago because of the preva-
lence of multinational competitors with experience in global compe-
tition who can rapidly diffuse new products g l ~ b a l l y . ~


      Differing Marketing Tasks. Even if globally sold product va-
rieties are similar, the marketing task can vary geographically. The
nature of distribution channels, marketing media, and cost effective
means of reaching the buyer' can differ so much from country to
country that the global competitors not only are unable to exploit
marketing knowledge from other markets but also have a great deal
of difficulty being as effective at local marketing as local competi-
tors. Although there is no reason why a global competitor could not
have centralized production and/or R&D combined with local mar-
keting, in practice it may be difficult to manage. In some businesses,
there may also be a customer bias toward dealing with local firms for
a variety of reasons.

      Intensive Local Services. Where intensive localized marketing,
service, or other customer interaction is required to compete in the
industry, the firm can find it tough to operate on an integrated, glo-
bal basis in competition with local rivals. Although a global firm
could conceivably perform these functions through decentralized
units, in practice the managerial task is so complex that the local
firm can be more responsive. Where intensive local marketing and
distribution (not subject to global economies) are crucial, the bene-
fits achieved by other centralized activities of the global firm can be
outweighed by the local firm. Even though a global metal fabricator
might gain some production and technological benefits of multina-
tional operations, for example, the need for intensive local market-
ing, responsive service, and quick turnaround means that the local
firm can equal or outperform the global one.

     Rapidly Changing Technology. The global firm may have dif-
ficulties in operating where rapidly changing technology requires
frequent product and process redesign attuned to the local markets.
 'For evidence of this theory, see Vernon (1979).
286                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

The self-contained, national firm may well be better able to adapt to
such conditions.


     Governmental Impediments. There are a wide variety of gov-
ernment impediments to global competition, most under the guise of
protecting local firms or local employment:
       tariffs and duties, which have the same effect as transport
       costs in limiting achievement of economies in production;
       quotas;
       preferential procurement from local firms by government
       and quasi-government entities (e.g., telephone companies,
       defense contractors);
       governmental insistence on local R&D or requiring locally
       produced components in the product;
       preferential tax treatment, labor policies, or other operating
       rules and regulations benefiting local firms;
       bribery laws, tax laws, or other policies by home governments
       that are disadvantageous to their firms in international opera-
       tions.
     Government impediments can either aid locally owned firms or
else require production in the country, which nullifies potential scale
economies from global production. Government regulations can
also force the sale of product varieties peculiar to the particular
country and affect marketing practices in ways that make them more
country-specific.
      Government impediments will be most likely to occur in indus-
tries that are "salient," or that affect some important government
objectives such as employment, regional development, indigeneous
sources of strategic raw materials, defense, and cultural significance.
For example, government impediments are great in such industries
as electric power generating and telecommunications equipment.

     Perceptual o r Resource Impediments. A final category of im-
pediments to global competition relates to perceptual or resource
limitations of incumbent firms in the industry. Perceiving the oppor-
tunities to compete globally is itself an innovation, particularly since
it may involve international issues well beyond the scope of hereto-
fore domestic activities. Incumbents may lack the necessary vision.
competition in Global Industries                                      287

Information and search costs are high in becoming established. Also
              resources may be necessary for such things as the con-
s truction of  world-scale facilities or start-up investments in penetrat-
ing new national markets. These investments may be beyond the
abilities of incumbents, as may be the required managerial and tech-
nical skills for global competition.
     The impediments to global competition are nearly always pres-
ent to some degree in an industry. As a result, even in industries that
are generally global in their competitive character, there may be as-
pects of "localness" that remain. In some markets, or in some seg-
ments, the national firm will be preeminent over global competitors
because of the presence of particularly significant impediments to
global competition.


Evolution to Global Industries

     Few industries begin as global industries, but they tend to evolve
into them over time. A number of triggers most common in creating
global industries will be discussed. They involve either establishing
or enhancing the sources of global competitive advantage or reduc-
ing or eliminating impediments to global competition. The latter will
not lead to globalization, however, unless significant sources of stra-
tegic advantage are present. In all cases, it takes a strategic innova-
tion by a firm or firms to make the industry global even though eco-
nomic or institutional changes may have created the potential.


    ENVIRONMENTAL TRIGGERS TO GLOBALIZATION

     Increased Scale Economies. Technological advances that in-
crease scale economies in production, logistics, purchasing, or R & D
clearly provide a trigger for global competition.
     Decreased Transportation or Storage Costs. Falling transport
or storage costs are a clear stimulus to globalization. The long-run
real decline in transportation that has occurred in the last twenty
Years is one of the key causes of the increased global competition we
observe today.
288                                            COM PETlTlVESTRATEGY

     Rationalized or Changed Distribution Channels. If distribu-
tion channels are in flux, the burden of foreign firms gaining access
to them may be eased. Rationalized channels may have the same ef-
fect. For example, if distribution for a product shifts from many
fragmented retailers to a few national department stores and mass
merchandiser chains, the problem of gaining distribution facing the
foreign firm may shrink dramatically.

     Changed Factor Costs. Shifts in factor costs can strongly en-
hance the sources of globalization. Increases in the cost of labor, en-
ergy, and raw materials can shift the optimum production or distri-
bution configuration in ways that make global competition more
beneficial.

     Narrowed National Economic and Social Circumstances. The
need for differing product varieties and marketing tasks and the
problems of obtaining local distribution stem in part from differ-
ences in the state of economic circumstances of different geographic
markets. They differ in their state of economic development, relative
factor costs, income level, nature of distribution channels, available
marketing media, and so on. As geographic markets become more
similar in their economic and cultural circumstances as they relate
to a particular industry, the potential for world competition in-
creases, provided sources of global advantage are present in the in-
dustry. For example, energy cost increases in the United States,
bringing it more in line with those abroad, coupled with a general re-
duction in per-capita income disparity between the United States and
other countries, are causing U.S. automobile firms to move aggres-
sively into small cars for sale worldwide; the automobile industry is
becoming increasingly global. Rapid growth in the Far East and
South America relative to the United States and Europe seems to be
bringing the economic circumstances of these markets closer to-
gether for consumer goods, and increased global competition in con-
sumer products may be a result.

     Reduced Government Constraints. Government policy
changes that remove quotas, reduce tariffs, promote international
cooperation on technical standards, and the like serve to increase the
possibilities for global competition. For example, the formation of
the European Economic Community promoted a major increase of
U.S. direct investment in Europe.
! ~ ~ m p e t i t i oinnGlobal Industries                            289


         STRATEGIC INNOVATIONS STIMULATING GLOBALIZATION

       Even in the absence of environmental triggers, a firm's strategic
   innovations can begin the process of globalization.

        Product Redefinition. If required product differences among
   countries lessen, other potential advantages from global competition
   may be reaped. Sometimes national product differences erode natu-
   rally as the industry matures and products become standardized.
   However, firms can redesign products to make them acceptable in
   many markets, as General Motors and other firms are doing with the
   "world car." In other cases, a marketing innovation which redefines
   the image or concept of the product is sometimes instrumental in un-
   locking possibilities for global competition. For example, Honda re-
   defined the image of a motorcycle in the United States to a practical,
   easy to ride, clean-cut mode of transportation and away from the
   image of a greasy, powerful, threatening device ridden by leather-
   jacketed hoods. With new U.S. volume to combine with Japanese
   volume, Honda was able to reap substantial global economies of
   scale in motorcycle production. Redefining product image may also
   ease difficulties in gaining access to distribution.

        Indentifieation of Market Segments. Even if there are re-
   quired product differences among countries, there may be segments
   of the market that are common to many countries and that are being
   poorly served in many of them. For example, Japanese and Euro-
   pean firms were able to take significant positions in the United
   States in the sale of small forklifts and small refrigerators because
   these market segments were badly served by U.S. manufacturers,
   who concentrated on the main part of their businesses. These seg-
   ments required distinct technology, facilities, and/or marketing ap-
   proaches which were subject to global economies and unmatchable
   by domestic firms. There may also be segments of the market less
   subject to impediments to global competition. In printing, for exam-
   ple, the long-run high-quality segment that is least sensitive to lead
   times is served on a global basis while other segments remain na-
   tional.

      Reduced Costs of Adaptations. The impediment to global
   competition posed by national product differences is eased if firms
can create ways of lowering the cost of altering basic products to
meet these local needs. Matsushita, for example, is reportedly close
to developing a television receiver capable of receiving signals of
both the PAL and SECAM technologies that have differentiated
France and other countries. Needs in telecommunications switch-
ing equipment vary dramatically by country, but Erickson has been
developing a library of modular software packages which can be
used to adapt a common piece of hardware to local needs. Any inno-
vation that modularizes a product for easy adaptation or increases
its range of compatibility opens up possibilities for global competi-
tion. So do production technology changes that lower the cost of
producing special varieties.

     Design Changes. Design changes leading to more standardized
components that are subject to global purchasing economies, or
those requiring new components subject to such economies, can trig-
ger shifts toward global competition.

     Deintegration of Production. In some industries government
constraints requiring local production can be circumvented by as-
sembling locally while producing some or all components centrally.
If scale economies stem largely from one or more key components,
their central production can strongly stimulate globalization of com-
petition.

     Elimination of Constraints from Resources or Perception.
The entry of new firms can eliminate resource constraints to global
competition. New entrants may also be able to start fresh with new
strategies unencumbered by having competed in the industry in its
preglobal era. For example, Japanese firms and recently firms from
other Asian countries, such as Hong Kong, Singapore, and South
Korea, have been quite successful in transforming industries in this
way.
     Foreign firms have sometimes been better able to perceive possi-
ble product redefinitions or opportunities for serving segments glob-
ally than U.S. firms, often because they have had experience com-
peting in this way in their home markets. For example, Japanese
motorcycle firms have long faced a market in which the motorcycle
was a regular form of transportation; European firms have long pro-
duced small refrigerators because of historically smaller European
competition in Global Industries                                   291

dwelling units compared to those in the United States, among other
reasons.


     ACCESS TO THE U.S. MARKET

     In many industries, globalization has hinged critically on for-
eign firms having access to the U.S. market because of its uniquely
large size. Recognizing the strategic nature of the U.S. market, for-
eign firms have pressed for innovations in order to gain access to it.
On the other hand, U.S. firms, because they were based in this huge
market, have sometimes felt less pressure to design truly global
methods of competition.
     It is striking how freely U.S. government policy has allowed ac-
cess to this volume, compared to the policies of many other govern-
ments. Some of this freedom is a legacy of postwar efforts to help
the Japanese and German economies.



Competition in Global Industries

     Competition in global industries presents some unique strategic
issues compared to domestic competition. Although their resolution
depends on the industry and the home and host countries involved,
the following issues must be confronted in some way by global com-
petitors.

      Industrial Policy and Competitive Behavior. Global industries
are characterized by the presence of competitors operating world-
wide from home bases in different countries. Particularly outside of
the United States, firms and their home governments must be re-
garded together in competitor analysis. The two have complex rela-
tionships which can involve many forms of regulation, subsidy, and
other assistance. Home governments often have objectives, such as
employment and balance of payments, that are not strictly econom-
ic, certainly from the point of view of the firm. Government indus-
trial policy can shape companies' goals, provide R&D funds, and in
many ways influence their position in global competition. Home
governments can help negotiate for the firm in world markets (heavy
construction, aircraft), help finance sales through central banks (ag-
ricultural goods, defense products, ships), or apply political leverage
to advance its interests in other ways. In some cases the home
government is directly involved in the firm through partial or corn-
plete ownership. A consequence of all this support is that barriers to
exit may well increase.
     Competitor analysis is impossible in world industries without a
thorough examination of the relationships between firms and horne
countries. The home country's industrial policy must be well under-
stood, as well as the political and economic relations of the horne
government vis-a-vis governments in major world markets for the
industry's product.
     It is often true that competition in world industries is distorted
by political considerations which may or may not be related to the
economics involved. Purchases of aircraft, defense products, or
computers may depend as much on the political relations between
home countries and buying countries as they do on the relative mer-
its of one firm's product against another's. This factor implies not
only that the competitor in a global industry needs a high degree of
information about political matters but also that the firm's particu-
lar relationships with its home government and governments in buy-
ing countries become truly strategic in importance. Competitive stra-
tegy may have to include actions designed to build political capital,
such as locating assembly operations in the major markets, even if
they are not economically efficient.

     Relationships with Host Governments in Major Markets. The
firm's relationship with host governments in major markets becomes
a key competitive consideration in global competition. Host govern-
ments have a variety of mechanisms that can impede the operation
of global firms. In some industries they are major buyers, whereas in
others their influence is more indirect but potentially as strong.
Where host governments are prone to exercise their power, they can
either block global competition altogether or create a number of dif-
ferent strategic groups in an industry. Studies by Doz have identified
three group^.^ The first consists of firms competing globally on a co-
ordinated basis; the second, of multinational companies (often with
smaller market shares) that follow a strategy of local responsiveness
rather than integration. These firms escape many government im-
pediments and may actually receive host government support. Final-
competition in Global Industries                                    293

ly, the third group is made up of local firms. For international com-
panies, the degree of responsiveness to host government concerns
becomes a key strategic variable. I will describe the broad alterna-
tives to competing globally in some detail below.
     The firm trying to compete globally may need to compete in cer-
tain major markets to gain necessary economies. For example, it
may need the volume of certain major markets in order to fulfill a
global manufacturing strategy. It must therefore concern itself stra-
tegically with protecting its position in those markets that affect its
        to implement the global strategy as a whole. This requirement
gives the host governments in these countries bargaining power, and
the firm may have to make concessions in order to preserve the
whole strategy. For example, Japanese firms in the television and
automobile industries may have to manufacture partly in the United
States, to appease U.S. political concerns, in order to maintain the
U.S. volume that is a key source of their global competitive advan-
tage. Another example is IBM's policies of local full employment,
balanced intra-company transfers of goods among countries, and
some local R & D.I0

     Systemic Competition. A global industry, by definition, is one
in which firms view competition as global and build strategies ac-
cordingly. Thus competition involves a coordinated worldwide pat-
tern of market positions, facilities, and investments. The global stra-
tegies of competitors will usually involve only partial overlap in
served markets, geographic location of plants, and so on. In main-
taining a competitive balance from a systemic viewpoint, it may be
necessary for firms to make defensive investments in particular mar-
kets and locations so as not to let competitors reap advantages that
can be factored into their overall global posture. Knickerbocker's
study of international competition found much evidence of this pat-
tern of behavior."

     Difficulty in Competitor Analysis. Although the same sorts of
factors as described in Chapter 3 are important in analyzing inter-
national competitors, this analysis is difficult in global industries
because of the prevalence of foreign firms and the need to analyze
systemic relationships. Data on foreign firms are generally less avail-
able than on U.S. firms, although the differences are narrowing.
"For a discussion of IBM see Doz (in press).
"Knickerbocker (1973).
294                                            COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

Analysis of foreign firms also may involve institutional considera.
tions that are hard for outsiders to understand, such as labor prac-
tices and managerial structures.


Strategic A1ternatives in Global Industries

     There are a number of basic strategic alternatives in a global in-
dustry. The most fundamental choice a firm must make is whether it
must compete globally or whether it can find niches where it can
build a defensible strategy for competing in one or a few national
markets.
     The alternatives are the following.

     Broad Line Global Competition. This strategy is directed at
competing worldwide in the full product line of the industry, taking
advantage of the sources of global competitive advantage to achieve
differentiation or an overall low cost position. Implementing this
strategy requires substantial resources and a long time horizon. To
maximize competitive advantage the emphasis in the firm's relation-
ships with governments is to reduce impediments to competing glo-
bally.

     Global Focus. This strategy targets a particular segment of the
industry in which the firm competes on a worldwide basis. A seg-
ment is chosen where the impediments to global competition are low
and the firm's position in the segment can be defended from incur-
sion by broad line global competitors. The strategy yields either low
cost or differentiation in its segment.

      National Focus. This strategy takes advantage of national
market differences to create a focused approach to a particular na-
tional market that allows the firm to outcompete global firms. This
variation of the focus strategy aims at either differentiation or low
cost in serving the particular needs of a national market, or the seg-
ments of it most subject to economic impediments to global competi-
tion.

    Protected Niche. This strategy seeks out countries where gov-
ernmental restraints exclude global competitors by requiring a high
competition in Global Industries                                    295

proportion of local content in the product, high tariffs, and so on.
The firm builds its strategy to deal effectively with the particular na-
tional markets with such restrictions, and places extreme attention
on the host government in order to insure that protection remains in
force.
     In some global industries, strategies of national focus or seeking
a protected niche are unavailable because there are no impediments
to global competition, while in other industries these strategies are
defendable against global competitors. An increasingly prevalent ap-
proach to implementing the more ambitious strategies in global in-
dustries is transnational coalitions, or cooperative agreements be-
tween firms in the industry of different home countries. Coalitions
allow competitors to team up to surmount the difficulties of imple-
menting a global strategy in areas like technology, market access,
and the like. Aircraft (GE-Snecma), automobiles (Chrysler-Mitsubi-
shi; Volvo-Renault) and electrical products (Siemens-Allis-Chal-
mers; Gould-Brown-Boveri) are just a few global or near-global in-
dustries in which coalitions have become prevalent.



Trends Affecting Global Competition

    In the context of our discussion, there appear to be a number of
trends that hold great importance for competition in existing global
industries and for the creation of new ones.

    Reduction in Differences Among Countries. A number of ob-
servers have pointed out that the economic differences among devel-
oped and newly developed countries may be narrowing in areas like
income, factor costs, energy costs, marketing practices, and distri-
bution channels.'* Part of this reduction may be due to the aggres-
siveness of multinational companies in spreading techniques around
the world. Whatever the causes, it works toward reducing impedi-
ments to world competition.

    More Aggressive Industrial Policy. Industrial policies of
many countries are in flux. From passive or protective postures, gov-
ernments like Japan, South Korea, Singapore, and West Germany
"For example, Vernon (1979).
298                                          COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

ficult problems for NDC firms to solve because of the unavailability
of resources or skills, inexperience, lack of credibility and estab-
lished relationships, or inability to understand the requirements
(e.g., distribution, consumer marketing and selling) in the tradi-
tional developed markets because of wide differences from local
conditions.
Strategic Decisions

Part Ill draws on the analytical structure in Part I to examine
each major type of strategic decision that occurs in an industry:
      vertical integration (Chapter 14);
      major capacity expansion (Chapter 15);
      entry (Chapter 16).
      Divestment, the other major type of strategic decision, is
considered in detail in Chapter 12, which analyzes the problems
of competing in declining industries.
      Each chapter in Part Ill draws on the concepts in Part I that
relate to the particular strategic decision under examination.
Part Ill also introduces additional economic theory and adminis-
trative considerations of managing and motivating an organiza-
tion that relate to each type of strategic decision.
      Part Ill is designed not only to help the firm make these
strategic decisions itself but also to give it insight into how its
competitors, customers, suppliers, and potential entrants might
resolve them. Thus it reinforces and deepens concepts pre-
sented in Parts I and 11.
The Strategic Analysis of
Vertical Integration




Vertical integration is the combination of technologically distinct
production, distribution, selling, and/or other economic processes
within the confines of a single firm. As such, it represents a decision
by the firm to utilize internal or administrative transactions rather
than market transactions to accomplish its economic purposes. For
example, a firm with its own sales force instead could have con-
tracted, through the market, an independent selling organization to
supply the selling services it requires. Similarly, the firm mining the
raw materials it fabricates into end products could have contracted
an independent mining organization to supply its needs.
     In theory, all the functions we now expect a corporation to per-
form could be performed by a consortium of independent economic
entities, each contracting with a central coordinator, which itself
need be little more than a desk and a single manager. In fact, seg-
ments of the book publishing and recording industries take approxi-
mately this form. Many publishers contract for editorial services,
layout, graphics, printing, distribution, and selling, retaining for the
firm little more than decisions about which books to publish, mar-
keting, and finance. Some recording companies similarly contract
with independent artists, producers, recording studios, disc-pressing
300
The Strategic Analysis of Vertical Integration                                 301

facilities, and distribution and marketing organizations to create,
manufacture, and sell each record.
      In most situations, however, firms find it advantageous to per-
form a significant proportion of the administrative, productive, dis-
tributive, or marketing processes required to produce their products
or services in-house rather than through contracts with a series of in-
dependent entities. They believe that it is cheaper, less risky, or eas-
ier to coordinate when these functions are performed internally.
      Many vertical integration decisions are framed in terms of the
"make or buy" decision, focusing on the financial calculations such
a decision entails.' That is, they are preoccupied with estimating the
cost savings of integration and balancing them with the investment
required. However, the vertical integration decision is much broader
than this. The essence of the vertical integration decision is not the
financial calculation itself but rather the numbers that serve as the
raw material for the calculation. The decision must go beyond an
analysis of costs and investment requirements to consider the
broader strategic issues of integration versus use of market transac-
tions, as well as some perplexing administrative problems in manag-
ing a vertically integrated entity that can affect the success of the in-
tegrated firm. These are very hard to quantify. It is the magnitude
and strategic significance of the benefits and costs of vertical inte-
gration, both in direct economic terms and indirectly through its af-
fect on the organization, that are the essence of the decision.
     This chapter examines the economic and administrative conse-
quences of vertical integration, in order to help the manager deter-
mine the appropriate degree of vertical integration in a strategic con-
text and to guide decisions to vertically integrate or disintegrate. To
find the strategically appropriate extent of vertical integration for
the firm requires balancing the economic and administrative benefits
of vertical integration with the economic and administrative costs.
This balance, as well as the particular costs and benefits themselves,
will differ greatly depending on the particular industry and on the
particular strategic situation of the firm. The benefits and costs are
also affected by whether the firm adopts a policy of tapered integra-
tion (producing some of its own requirements internally and con-
tracting for the rest) or full integration. Also, many of the benefits
of integration can sometimes be gained without incurring all of the
costs through the use of quasi-integration-the use of debt or equity
'No attempt will be made here to review the techniques for making make or buy
 calculations per se. For treatments of them see Buffa (1973); Moore (1973).
3
The Strategic Analysis of Vertical Integration                                    303
ficient unit, the firm faces one of two costs of integrating, which
must then be figured against the benefits. Either it builds an ineffi-
ciently small facility that meets only its needs, or it builds an effi-
cient facility and must bear the possible risk of sales or purchases on
the open market.


    STRATEGIC BENEFITS OF INTEGRATION



     If the volume of throughput is sufficient to reap available econ-
omies of scale,' the most commonly cited benefit of vertical integra-
tion is the achievement of economies, or cost savings, in joint pro-
duction, sales, purchasing, control, and other areas.

      Economies of Combined Operations. By putting technologi-
cally distinct operations together, the firm can sometimes gain effi-
ciencies. In manufacturing, for example, this move can reduce the
number of steps in the production process, reduce handling costs, re-
duce transportation costs, and utilize slack capacity which arises
from indivisibilities in one stage (machine time, physical space,
maintenance facilities, etc.). In the classic case of the hot rolling of
steel, the steel billet need not be reheated if the steelmaking and roll-
ing operations are integrated. Metal may not have to be treated with
a finish to prevent oxidation before the next operation; slack inputs
such as the capacity of particular machines can be used on both
processes. Facilities can be located in close proximity to each other,
as is the case with the many large sulfuric acid users (fertilizer com-
panies, oil companies) who have established backward integration
into sulfuric acid production. This step eliminates transportation
costs, which are substantial for a hazardous and difficult to handle
product like sulfuric acid.

     Economies of Internal Control and Coordination. The costs
of scheduling, coordinating operations, and responding to emergen-
cies may be lower if the firm is integrated. Adjacent location of the
integrated units facilitates coordination and control. There is also
likely to be more trust placed on an insider to keep the needs of its
'Or the cost penalty is small enough to be offset by other benefits of integration to
 be discussed.
sister unit in mind, and therefore, less slack built into the business to
cope with unforeseen events. Steadier supply of raw materials or the
ability to smooth deliveries may result in better control of produc-
tion schedules, delivery schedules, and maintenance operations. This
is because the revenue foregone by suppliers who fail to deliver may
be much less than the cost of disruption, and hence their motivation
to deliver punctually is hard to assure. Styling changes, product re-
design, or introduction of new products may also be easier to coordi-
nate internally, or coordination may occur more rapidly. Such econ-
omies of control can reduce idle time, the need for inventory, and
the need for personnel in the control function.

      Economies of Information. Integrated operations may reduce
the need for collecting some types of information about the market,
or more likely, may reduce the overall cost of gaining information.
The fixed costs of monitoring the market and predicting supply, de-
mand, and prices can be spread over all parts of the integrated firm,
whereas they would have to be borne by each entity in an uninte-
grated firm.' For example, the integrated food processor can use
sales projections for the final product in all segments of the vertical
chain. Similarly, market information may well flow more freely
through an organization than through a series of independent par-
ties. Integration may thus allow the firm to obtain faster and more
accurate information about the marketplace.

     Economies of Avoiding the Market. By integrating, the firm
can potentially save on some of the selling, price shopping, negotiat-
ing, and transactions costs of market transactions. Although there
will usually be some negotiating in internal transactions, its cost
should not be nearly as great as that of selling to or purchasing from
outside parties. No sales force and no marketing or purchasing de-
partments are needed. Moreover, advertising is unnecessary, as are
other marketing costs.

     Economies of Stable Relationships. Both upstream and down-
stream stages, knowing that their purchasing and selling relationship
is stable, may be able to develop more efficient, specialized proce-
'Some of the benefits of vertical integration, such as information economies, can
 be achieved even if the products do not actually move between units related verti-
 cally in the firm, but each deals with outside parties.
The Strategic Analysis of Vertical Integration                        305

dures for dealing with each other that would not be feasible with an
independent supplier or customer-where both the buyer and the
seller in the transaction face the competitive risk of being dropped or
squeezed by the other party. Specialized procedures for dealing with
customers or suppliers can include dedicated, specialized logistical
systems, special packaging, unique arrangements for record keeping
and control, and other potentially cost-saving ways of interacting.
     It is also possible that stability of the relationship will allow the
upstream unit to tune its product (in quality, specifications, etc.) to
the exact tequirements of the downstream unit, or for the down-
stream unit to adapt itself more fully to the characteristics of the
upstream unit. To the extent that such adaptation would lock inde-
pendent parties into each other, its occurrence without vertical inte-
gration may require payment of a risk premium, which raises costs.

     Characteristics of Vertical Integration Economies, Economies
of integration are at the core of the analysis of vertical integration,
not only because they matter in and of themselve:, but also because
they contribute to the significance of some other issues in integration
to be discussed below. Clearly their importance varies from firm to
firm in an industry, depending on each firm's strategy and its
strengths and weaknesses. A firm with a strategy of low-cost produc-
tion may place a greater value on achieving economies of all types,
for example. Similarly, a firm with a weakness in marketing may
save more by avoiding market transactions.


      A second potential benefjt of vertical integration is a tap into
technology. In some circumstances it can provide close familiarity
with technology in upstream or downstream businesses that is cru-
cial to the success of the base business, a form of economy of infor-
mation so important as to deserve separate treatment. For example,
many mainframe computer and minicomputer firms have instituted
backward integration into semiconductor design and manufacturing
to gain a better understanding of this essential technology. Manufac-
turers of components in many areas integrate forward into systems
to develop a sophisticated understanding of how the components are
used. Often, if not usually, integration to tap into technology is ta-
pered, or partial, integration because full integration carries with it
some technological risks.
306                                              COMPETITIVE STRATEGY



      Vertical integration assures the firm that it will receive available
supplies in tight periods or that it will have an outlet for its products
in periods of low overall demand. Integration only assures demand
to the extent that the downstream unit can absorb the output of the
upstream unit. The ability of the downstream unit to do so clearly
depends on the effect of competitive conditions on the demand of
the downstream unit. If demand is down in the downstream indus-
try, the sales of the internal unit may also be low, and its needs for
the output of its internal supplier corresponding low. Thus integra-
tion may only reduce the uncertainty that the firm will be arbitrarily
cut off by its customers rather than assure demand in the literal
sense.
     Although vertical integration can reduce the uncertainty of sup-
ply and demand, and hedge the firm against fluctuations in prices,
this does not mean that internal transfer prices should not reflect
market disturbances. Products should pass from unit to unit within
the integrated company at transfer prices reflecting market prices to
insure that each unit will manage its business properly. If transfer
prices diverge from market prices, one unit will be subsidizing the
other compared to what it could achieve on the open market (one
unit will be better off and the other worse off). Then the manage-
ments of the upstream and downstream units may make decisions
based on these artificial prices which reduce the efficiency and harm
the competitive position of their units. For example, if an upstream
unit supplies a downstream unit at prices significantly lower than
those it could receive on the open market, the corporation as a whole
will probably suffer. The downstream manager, acting on the basis
of the artificially low prices, may well seek to expand the market po-
sition of the downstream unit-which will then require the upstream
unit to supply more subsidized products.
     Assurance of supply and demand should thus not be viewed as
complete protection from ups and downs in the market but rather as
reducing uncertainty about their effects on the firm. Both the up-
stream and downstream unit should be able to plan better with lower
risks of interruptions, elimination of changes in suppliers or custom-
ers, and lower risks of being caught in a situation in which prices in
excess of average market prices must be paid to meet an emergency.
This reduction of uncertainty is especially important when one or
both stages is capital intensive. The assurance of supply and demand
The Strategic Analysis of Vertical Integration                                307

has been mentioned prominently as a motivation for integration in
such industries as petroleum, steel, and aluminum.
     OFFSET
          BARGAIN~NG
                 POWER AND INPUT
                               COST DISTORTIONS
      If a firm is dealing with suppliers or customers who wield signif-
 icant bargaining power and reap returns on investment in excess of
 the opportunity cost of capital, it pays for the firm to integrate even
 if there are no other savings from integration. Offsetting bargaining
 power through integration may not only lower costs of supply (by
 backward integration) or raise price realization (by forward integra-
 tion) but also allow the firm to operate more efficiently by eliminat-
ing otherwise valueless practices used to cope with the powerful sup-
 pliers or customers. The bargaining power of suppliers or customers
will be determined by the structure of their respective industries
relative to the firm's industry.
      Backward integration to offset bargaining power has other po-
tential benefits. Internalizing the profits earned by suppliers of an
input can reveal the true costs of that input. The firm then has the
choice of adjusting the price of its final product to maximize overall
profits of the two entities before integration. The fact that the firm
knows the true cost of inputs also means that it might improve effi-
ciency by changing the mix of the various inputs used in the down-
stream business' production p r o ~ e s s This
                                           . ~ move cah also increase
total profitability.
      Although the benefits of adjusting to the true opportunity costs
of inputs are clear from the perspective of the corporation, it is im-
portant to note that conventional transfer pricing policies work
against reaping these benefits. If external suppliers of an input have
bargaining power, internal transfers at the market price will occur
above the true opportunity cost of the input. However, transfers at
market price can have administrative benefits in terms of managerial
incentives.


     Vertical integration can improve the ability of the firm to differ-
entiate itself from others by offering a wider slice of value added un-
der the control of management. This aspect can, for example, allow
better control of channels of distribution in order to offer superior
service or provide opportunities for differentation through in-house
'This decision of course depends on the ability of the downstream unit to vary the
 mix of its inputs.
                                                COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

manufacture of proprietary components. The effect of vertical inte-
gration on differentiation will be discussed further below.


     If vertical integration achieves any of these benefits, it can raise
mobility barriers. The benefits give the integrated firm some com-
petitive advantage over the unintegrated firm, in the form of higher
prices, lower costs, or lower risk. Thus the unintegrated firm must
integrate or face a disadvantage, and the new entrant into the busi-
ness is forced to enter as an integrated firm or bear the same conse-
quences. The more significant the net benefits of integration, the
greater the pressure on other firms to also integrate. If there are sig-
nificant economies of scale or capital requirements barriers to inte-
gration, the compulsion to integrate will raise mobility barriers in
the industry. If scale economies and capital requirements are not sig-
nificant, on the other hand, then the compulsion to be integrated will
have little competitive significance.
     ENTER A HIGHER-RETURN BUSINESS
     A firm may sometimes increase its overall return on investment
by vertically integrating. If the stage of production into which inte-
gration is being contemplated has a structure that offers a return on
investment greater than the opportunity cost of capital for the firm,
then it is profitable to integrate even if there are no economies of in-
tegration per se. Of course the integrating firm must include the cost
of overcoming entry barriers into the adjacent stage in its calculation
about the return on investment to be earned in the adjacent industry,
and not just consider the returns being earned by incumbents. Thus,
as will be discussed in Chapter 16, it must have some potential ad-
vantages over other potential entrants.


     Even if there are no positive benefits of integration, it may be
necessary to defend against foreclosure of access to suppliers or cus-
tomers if competitors are integrated. Widespread integration by
competitors can tie up many of the sources of supply or the desirable
customers or retail outlets. In this case the unintegrated firm faces
the grim prospect of having to scramble for the remaining suppliers
or customers and bears the risk that they may be inferior to those
captured by integrated firms. Foreclosure thus raises the mobility
barrier of access to distribution channels or the absolute cost barrier
of access to favorable suppliers of raw materials.
The Strategic Analysis of Vertical Integration                              309
     For defensive purposes, a firm may have to integrate or face a
disadvantage from foreclosure, the disadvantage being more serious
the greater the percentage of customers or suppliers who are fore-
closed. These same considerations mean that the new entrant must
enter the business on an integrated basis. Need for integration will
raise mobility barriers in the same way previously described if there
are significant economies of scale or capital requirements involved.
The foreclosure problem has triggered much defensive integration in
such U.S. industries as cement and shoes.


     STRATEGIC COSTS OF INTEGRATION

     The strategic costs of vertical integration basically involve entry
cost, flexibility, balance, ability to manage the integrated firm, and
the use of internal organizational incentives versus market incen-
tives.


     Vertical integration obviously requires the firm to overcome the
mobility barriers to compete in the upstream or downstream busi-
ness. Integration is, after all, a special case (though a common one)
of the general strategic option of entry into a new b ~ s i n e s sBecause
                                                                   .~
of the internal buying and selling relationship implied by vertical in-
tegration, the integrating firm can often readily surmount some mo-
bility barriers into the adjacent business, such as access to distribu-
tion channels and product differentiation. However, overcoming
barriers caused by cost advantages from proprietary technology or
favorable sources of raw materials can be a cost of vertical integra-
tion, as can overcoming other sources of mobility barriers, such as
economies of scale and capital requirements. As a result, vertical in-
tegration occurs most frequently in industries like metal containers,
aerosol packaging, and sulfuric acid, in which the technology is well
known and the minimum efficient scale of a plant is not great.


     Vertical integration increases the proportion of a firm's costs
that are fixed. If the firm was purchasing an input on the spot mar-
ket, for example, all the costs of that input would be variable. If the
input is produced internally, the firm must bear any fixed costs in-
'See Chapter 16 for an examination of the economic and strategic issues in entry
 decisions generally.
310                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

volved in its production even if a downturn or some other cause re-
duces the demand for it. Since the sales of the upstream business are
derived from the sales of the downstream business, factors that
cause fluctuations in either business cause fluctuations in the whole
chain. Fluctuations can be caused by the business cycle, by competi-
tive or market developments, and so on. Thus integration increases
the operating leverage of the firm, exposing it to greater cyclical
swings in earnings. Vertical integration thereby increases business
risk from this source, though the net effect of integration on risk
depends on whether it decreases business risk in other dimensions, as
has been discussed. The degree to which integration will increase op-
erating leverage in a particular business clearly depends on the
amount of fixed costs present in the business in which integration oc-
curs. If the business has low fixed costs, for example, the effective
increase in operating leverage can be minor.
     A good example of the risk of operating leverage created by ex-
tensive vertical integration is the Curtis Publishing Company. Curtis
built an immense vertical enterprise to supply its relatively few mag-
azines, primarily the Saturday Evening Post. When the magazine
ran into difficulty in the late 1960s, the impact on the financial per-
formance of Curtis was disastrous.



     Vertical integration implies that the fortunes of a business unit
are at least partly tied to the ability of its in-house supplier or cus-
tomer (who might be its distribution channel) to compete success-
fully. Technological changes, changes in product design involving
components, strategic failures, or managerial problems can create a
situation in which the in-house supplier is providing a high-cost, in-
ferior, or inappropriate product or service or the in-house customer
or distribution channel is losing position in its market and thus its
suitability as a customer. Vertical integration raises the costs of
changeover to another supplier or customer relative to contracting
with independent entities. For example, Imasco, a leading Canadian
cigarette producer, backward integrated into the packaging material
used in its manufacturing process. However, technological change
made this form of packaging inferior to other varieties, which the
captive supplier could not produce. The supplier was eventually di-
vested after many difficulties. Robert Hall's difficulties in the men's
The Strategic Analysis of Vertical integration                          311

clothing business may have been caused in part by its total reliance
on internally produced merchandise.
     The extent of this risk depends on a realistic assessment of the
likelihood that the in-house supplier or customer will get into trou-
ble, and the likelihood of external or internal changes that will re-
quire adaptation by the sister unit.


     Integration that further increases the specialization of assets,
strategic interrelationships, or emotional ties to a business may raise
overall exit barriers. Any of the exit barriers (described in Chapter
12) can be affected.


      Vertical integration consumes capital resources, which have an
opportunity cost within the firm, whereas dealing with an indepen-
dent entity uses investment capital of outsiders. Vertical integration
must yield a return greater than or equal to the firm's opportunity
cost of capital, adjusting for the strategic considerations discussed in
this chapter, in order for integration to be a good choice. Even if
there are substantial benefits to integration, they may not be enough
to raise the return from integrating above the corporate hurdle rate
when the firm is contemplating integration into potentially low-re-
turn businesses like retailing or distribution.
      This issue can manifest itself in the appetite for capital of the
upstream or downstream business into which integration is contem-
plated. If its capital needs are likely to be great relative to the ability
of the firm to raise funds, the need to reinvest funds in the integrated
unit can expose the firm to strategic risks elsewhere. That is, integra-
tion can drain capital needed elsewhere in the company.
      Integration can reduce the flexibility with which the firm al-
locates its investment funds. Since the performance of the entire ver-
tical chain is dependent on each of its pieces, the firm may be forced
to invest in marginal pieces to preserve the overall entity rather than
allocate capital elsewhere. For example, it appears that some of the
large, integrated firms that supply raw materials have been stuck in
low-return businesses because they lacked the capital to diversify.
Their capital-intensive, integrated operations have consumed most
of the funds available for investment just to preserve the value of the
assets in these operations.
312                                              COMPETITIVE STRATEGY




     By integrating, the firm may cut itself off from the flow of tech-
nology from its suppliers or customers. Integration usually means
that a company must accept responsibility for developing its own
technological capability rather than piggybacking on others. How-
ever, if it chooses not to integrate (whereas other firms do), suppliers
are often willing to support the firm aggressively with research, engi-
neering assistance, and the like.
     Foreclosure of technology can be a significant risk when there
are numerous independent suppliers or customers doing research or
where suppliers or customers have large-scale research efforts or
have particular know-how difficult to replicate. This risk is inherent
in integrating to provide a direct tap into technology in adjacent
businesses, though it may be counterbalanced by the risk of not inte-
grating for this reason. Even if the firm only integrates partially, still
buying or selling some product in the open market, it may risk fore-
closing technology because it puts itself in competition with its sup-
pliers or customers (see below).


     The productive capacities of the upstream and downstream
units in the firm must be held in balance or potential problems arise.
The stage of the vertical chain with excess capacity (or excess de-
mand) must sell some of its output (or purchase some of its inputs)
on the open market or sacrifice market position. This step in such a
circumstance may be difficult because the vertical relationship often
compels the firm to sell or buy from its competitors. They may be re-
luctant to deal with the firm for fear of getting second priority or to
avoid strengthening their competitor's position. If excess output can
be readily sold on the open market or excess demand for inputs
readily satisfied, on the other hand, the risks of imbalance are not
great.
     Vertical stages go out of balance for a variety of reasons. First,
efficient increments to capacity are usually unequal for the two
stages, creating temporary periods of imbalance even in a growing
market. Technological change in one stage may require changes in
methods that effectively increase its capacity relative to the other
stage; or changes in product mix and quality may affect effective ca-
The Strategic Analysis of Vertical Integration                      313

pacity in the vertical stages unequally. The risk of imbalance will de-
pend on predictions about the likelihood of these factors.


     Vertical integration means that buying and selling will occur
through a captive relationship. The incentives for the upstream busi-
ness to perform may be dulled because it sells in-house instead of
competing for the business. Conversely, the business buying inter-
nally from another unit in the company may not bargain as hard as it
would with outside vendors. Thus, dealing in-house can reduce in-
centives. A related point is that internal projects to expand capacity,
or internal contracts to buy or sell, may get less stringent review than
external contracts with customers or suppliers.
     Whether or not these dulled incentives actually reduce perform-
ance in the vertically integrated firm is a function of the managerial
structure and procedures that govern the relationship between the
administrative units in the vertical chain. One often reads policy
statements concerning internal transactions that give managers the
freedom to use outside sources or to sell outside if the inside unit is
not competitive. The mere presence of such procedures is not
enough, however. The use of an outside instead of an inside source
often places the burden of proof on the unit manager and requires an
explanation to top management; most managers may well try to
avoid interacting with top management on such a basis. Also there is
a sense of fairness and comradeship within an organization that may
make strictly arms-length agreements difficult, especially if one unit
or the other is earning very low returns or otherwise is in serious
trouble. Yet this is where arms-length relationships are the most nec-
essary.
     The difficulty just discussed, leads to the "bad apple" problem.
If the upstream or downstream unit is sick (strategically or other-
wise), its problems may spill over to its healthy partner. One unit can
be pressured or even voluntarily attempt to rescue the troubled unit
by accepting higher-cost products, products of inferior quality, or
lower prices on internal sales. This situation can damage the healthy
unit strategically. If the corporate parent seeks to help the troubled
unit, it will do better to subsidize or support the unit directly rather
than indirectly through its sister unit. Even if top management rec-
ognizes this point, however, human nature will make it difficult for
the healthy unit to take a ruthless attitude toward the sick unit (al-
314                                                     COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

though this does happen in some companies). Thus the presence of
the sick unit can insidiously poison the healthy one.


      Businesses can be different in structure, technology and man-
agement despite having a vertical relationship. Primary metal pro-
duction and fabrication are quite different, for example; one is ex-
tremely capital intensive and the other, which is not, demands close
supervision of production and a decentralized emphasis on service
and marketing. Manufacturing and retailing are fundamentally dif-
ferent. Understanding how to manage such a different business can
be a major cost of integration and can introduce a major element of
risk in the d e ~ i s i o nA
                           . ~management capable of operating one part of
the vertical chain very well may be incapable of effectively managing
the other, to put the point in its most extreme form. Thus a common
managerial approach and a common set of assumptions can be quite
counterproductive for vertically related businesses.
     Since vertically linked businesses transact business with each
other, however, there is a subtle tendency to view them as similar
from a managerial point of view. Organizational structure, controls,
incentives, capital budgeting guidelines, and a variety of other man-
agerial techniques from the base business may be indiscriminately
applied to the upstream or downstream business. Similarly, judg-
ments and rules that have grown from experience in the base busi-
ness may be applied in the business into which integration occurs.
This tendency to apply the same managerial style to both elements of
the chain is another risk of integration.

     When assessing the strategic benefits and costs of vertical inte-
gration, one must examine them in terms not only of the current en-
vironment but also of probable changes in industry structure in the
future. Economies of integration that seem small today, for exam-
ple, may be large in a more mature industry; or industry growth and
resulting company growth may mean that the firm will soon be able
to support an internal unit of efficient scale. Or slowing down of
6These potential differences in managerial requirements are attenuated if the
 vertically related business must necessarily operate in a foreign country, which is
 the case with many suppliers of raw materials. Foreign location adds additional
 differences in the managerial approach required in the vertically related business
 to the sort of differences that have been discussed. In addition, in certain circum-
 stances a foreign owner may be at a disadvantage compared to local owners as a
 result of policies of the host government.
The Strategic Analysis of Vertical Integration                        315

technological change can reduce the risk of being locked into the in-
ternal supplier.


Particular Strategic Issues in Forward Integration

      In addition to the benefits and costs of integration previously
discussed, there are some particular issues raised by forward integra-
tion.
      Improved Ability to Differentiate the Product. Forward inte-
gration can often allow the firm to differentiate its product more
successfully because the firm can control more elements of the pro-
duction process or the way the product is sold. For example, Texas
Instruments' forward integration into consumer products such as
watches and calculators allowed it to develop a brand name, whereas
its electronic components were essentially commodities. Monfort, a
cattle feedlot operator, has forward integrated into meat-packing
and distribution in part to develop a brand name at least with re-
tailers.
      Providing service for a product as well as selling the product it-
self may allow a company to differentiate itself even though its prod-
uct is not superior to that of competitors. Forward integration into
retailing sometimes allows the firm to control the salesperson's pre-
sentation, the physical facilities and image of the store's location,
the incentives of the salesperson, and other elements of the retail sell-
ing function that help differentiate its product. The basic idea of in-
tegration in all these cases is to increase value added to provide a
basis for differentiation that was unavailable or difficult in the unin-
tegrated unit. In increasing product differentiation, the firm may at
the same time increase mobility barriers as well.

     Access to Distribution Channels. Forward integration solves
the problem of access to distribution channels and removes any bar-
gaining power the channels have.

     Better Access to Market Information. In a vertical chain the
underlying demand for the product (and the decision maker who ac-
tually makes the choices among competing brands) often are located
in a forward stage. This stage determines both the size and the com-
position of demand of the upstream stages of production. For exam-
316                                            COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

ple, the demand for alternative construction materials is determined
by the contractor or developer who balances customers' desires with
the quality and cost of the materials available. The stage in which
these key market decisions are made will be referred to here as the
demand leading stage.
      Forward integration toward or into the demand leading stage
can provide the firm with critical market information, that allows
the entire vertical chain to function more effectively. On the simplest
level, it may allow the firm to determine the quantity of demand for
its products sooner than if it had to infer it indirectly from orders by
its customers. The interpretation of customers' orders is complicated
by the presence of inventories held by each intervening stage. Earlier
market information allows better adjustment of production levels
and reductions in the costs of overages and underages.
      Informational benefits may also be more subtle than simply the
receipt of timely information on the size of the demand. By compet-
ing in the demand leading stage, the firm can gain, firsthand, timely
information about the optimal product mix, trends in buyer tastes,
and competitive developments that will ultimately affect its product.
This information can facilitate rapid adjustments in product charac-
teristics and mix in the upstream stages and lower the costs of adjust-
ment.
      A number of companies have followed implicit or explicit strat-
egies of integration to the demand leading stage in all their busi-
nesses. Genstar Ltd., a leading Canadian firm, integrated forward
into housing construction and heavy construction from its cement
and building materials businesses. Indal Ltd., another Canadian
firm, has a policy of going forward into final fabrication from its
metal rolling, extruding, and coating businesses. Both companies
place heavy weight on market information as a justification for for-
ward integration.
     The benefits of forward integration for this purpose depend on
the degree to which market conditions are unstable or changing in
the demand leading stage, whether production is to inventory or to
order, and also on the ability of the firm to gain forward market in-
formation without resorting to integration. In both construction and
metal fabricating, final demand is highly cyclical and its composi-
tion often rapidly changes. Cyclical, erratic, and changing demand
increases the benefits of timely market information. If final demand
is highly stable, market information gained from customers may be
more than sufficient.
The Strategic Analysis of Vertical Integration                       317

     The degree to which accurate information can be gained from
customers depends on the industry. Although it is hard to generalize,
if there are many small customers, informal sampling probably gives
an accurate indication of the situation in forward markets. The pres-
ence of a few large customers (particularly if they are powerful), on
the other hand, means that accurate forward information may be
hard to obtain. The consequences of changes in a particular cus-
tomer's specifications or mix are much greater in this situation as
well.

     Higher Price Realization. In some cases forward integration
can allow the firm to realize higher overall prices by making it possi-
ble to set different prices for different customers for essentially the
same product. The problem with this practice is that arbitrage may
occur, and the practice can be illegal in some cases under the Robin-
son-Patman Act. If the firm integrates into the businesses that
should be charged with the lower price because its demand is more
elastic, it may realize higher prices on sales to other customers. How-
ever, other firms selling the product must also be integrated, or the
firm's product must be differentiated so that customers will not ac-
cept competitors' products as perfect substitutes.
     Another practice is to integrate in order to allow the prices to be
better matched to the elasticities of demand of the firm's ultimate
customers. Some consumers may be willing to pay more for a prod-
uct because they use it more intensively than others, for example. A
firm may have difficulty in matching prices to different usage rates,
however, because it cannot measure usage. But if it also provides
service for a fee or sells supplies that must be used with the product,
it can set the basic product price low and recoup the benefits of dif-
fering elasticities of demand through the sale of these associated
products. This sort of approach has been employed in copiers and
computers. As long as the buyer is not compelled to purchase the as-
sociated products from the firm as a condition of purchasing the
basic product, this practice is legal under the antitrust statutes.


Particular Strategic Issues in Backward Integration

     As with forward integration, there are some particular issues
that must be examined in considering backward integration.
                                                 COMPETITIVESTRATEGY

      Proprietary Knowledge. By producing its needs internally, the
firm can avoid sharing proprietary data with its suppliers, who need
it to manufacture component parts or raw materials. Often the exact
specifications for component parts reveal the key characteristics of
the final product's design or manufacture to the supplier, or the
component parts themselves are what is proprietary about the final
product. If the firm cannot produce the component internally in
such a situation, its suppliers will have considerable bargaining
power and will pose a threat of entry. For a long time Polaroid has
produced internally many of the proprietary components of its prod-
ucts, contracting out the rest, for just this reason.

      Differentiation. Backward integration can allow the firm to
enhance differentiation, though the circumstances are somewhat dif-
ferent than those of forward integration. By gaining control over the
production of key inputs, the firm actually may be able to differen-
tiate its product better or say credibly that it can. For example, if in-
tegration allows the firm to receive inputs with particular specifica-
tions, it may improve its final product or at least distinguish it from
competitors. Even if Perdue chickens are indistinguishable from
others, the fact that Frank Perdue raises them allows him to claim
that they are treated specially. If he bought average chickens on the
open market and merely processed them, the claim that Perdue
chickens are different would be harder to make.


Long-Term Contracts and the Economies
of Integration

     It is essential to recognize the possibility that some economies of
integration could be gained by the right type of long-term or even
short-term contract between independent firms. For example, proc-
ess savings could conceivably be gained by locating the plants of two
independent entities right next to each other. Metal container plants
are sometimes located next door to major food processors and con-
nected by conveyor belts to avoid transportation costs. Or selling
and coordination costs could be avoided with sole-source long-term
contracts specifying a fixed delivery schedule.
     However, contracts do not usually allow the achievement of all
the economies of integration because they expose one or both parties
The Strategic Analysis of Vertical Integration                      319

to substantial risks of being locked in and because independent par-
ties have interests that are probably dissimilar. These risks and diver-
gent interests often make it impossible for independent firms to
agree on a contract, either because of negotiating costs or the risk of
post-contract haggling. Hence integration becomes necessary to
achieve the benefits.
      Nevertheless, a firm should always consider the option of con-
tracting with an independent entity to achieve the same benefits
as integration, especially when the risks and costs of integration,
previously discussed, are great. One of the pitfalls in vertical inte-
gration is to be beset by its costs or risks when many of the benefits
could have been achieved through more clever dealing with outside
parties.


    TAPERED INTEGRATION

      Tapered integration is partial integration backward or forward,
the firm purchasing the rest of its needs on the open market. It re-
quires that the firm be able to more than support an efficiently sized
in-house operation and still have additional requirements which are
met through the marketplace. If the firm is not large enough for its
in-house operations to be efficient, the disadvantage of small scale
must be subtracted from the net benefits caused by tapered integra-
tion.
      Tapered integration can yield many of the benefits of integra-
tion previously described while reducing some of the costs. It is
undesirable if the foregone benefits due to incomplete integration
exceed the reduction in the costs of integration brought about by
taper. The choice between tapered integration and full integration
will vary from industry to industry and from firm to firm in the same
industry.


      Tapered integration results in less elevation in fixed costs than
full integration. Furthermore, the degree of taper (or the proportion
of product or service purchased outside) can be adjusted to reflect
the degree of risk in the market. Independent suppliers can be
utilized to bear the risk of fluctuations, while in-house suppliers
320                                                   COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

maintain steady production rates.' This is the case in the automobile
industry, and it is a prevalent practice in many Japanese manufac-
turing industries. Taper can also be used to guard against imbalance
between stages because of the problems described earlier. The op-
timal degree of taper varies with the size of the expected market fluc-
tuations and the extent of probable imbalances between stages
created by expected technological change and other events. It should
be noted, however, that tapered integration by necessity requires the
firm to buy or sell to competitors. If this is a serious risk, tapered in:
tegration is unwise.
     Tapered integration reduces the risk of locked-in relationships
to the extent of the degree of taper. It also gives the firm some access
to outside R&D activities and can provide a partial solution to the
problem of internal incentives. The juxtaposition of the in-house
supplier or customer with independent suppliers or customers creates
a form of competition among them that may improve their work.


     Tapered integration allows the firm to prove that a threat of full
integration is credible, which provides a strong discipline on sup-
pliers or customers and may avoid the necessity of full integration to
offset bargaining power. Furthermore, tapered integration gives the
firm a detailed knowledge of the cost of operating in the adjacent in-
dustry and a source of emergency supply. These factors yield addi-
tional bargaining advantages. Such a strong bargaining position is
characteristic of the major automobile companies and the interna-
tional oil companies (who purchase tanker shipping services to com-
plement their own fleets). Maintaining a pilot plant, short of full
fledged in-house production, can in some cases provide many of the
same effects as tapered integration with even less required invest-
ment.'
     Tapered integration also gives the firm many of the informa-
tional benefits of integration. However, some other benefits of verti-
cal integration discussed earlier are reduced, in some cases more
than proportionately to the amount of taper. Taper may actually in-
crease coordination costs in situations in which products produced
by outside suppliers and the internal unit must match exactly.
'This practice presumes that suppliers willing to take this role and bear such
 fluctuations without charging a corresponding risk premium are available. They
 are most likely to be available where the supplier industry is fragmented and/or
 highly competitive.
'See Cannon (1968), p. 447.
The Strategic Analysis of Vertical Integration


     QUASI-INTEGRATION

     Quasi-integration is the establishment of a relationship between
vertically related businesses that is somewhere in between long-term
contracts and full ownership. Common forms of quasi-integration
are as follows:
        minority equity investment;
        loans or loan guarantees;
        prepurchase credits;
        exclusive dealing agreements;
        specialized logistical facilities;
        cooperative R&D.
      In some circumstances, quasi-integration achieves some or
many of the benefits of vertical integration without incurring all the
costs. It can create a greater community of interest between buyer
and seller, which facilitates specialized arrangements (like logistical
facilities) that lower unit costs, reduce the risk of supply and demand
interruptions, mitigate against bargaining power, and so on. This
community of interest stems from goodwill, sharing of information,
more frequent and informal contacts between managements, and the
direct financial stake each side has in the other. Quasi-integration
can also reduce costs that may be present with full integration, and it
eliminates the necessity to commit to the full supply and demand of
the adjacent business. It also avoids the need to make the full capital
investment required for integration and eliminates the necessity of
managing the adjacent business, among other factor^.^
     Quasi-integration should be considered as an alternative to full
integration. The key is whether the community of interest estab-
lished through quasi-integration is sufficient to achieve enough of
the benefits of integration to justify the reduction in the costs (and
risks) over full integration. Some benefits of integration, such as in-
creasing return on investment, raising product differentiation, or en-
hancing mobility barriers, may be quite difficult to achieve with
quasi-integration. An analysis of each benefit and cost of vertical in-
tegration in the particular business with the alternative of quasi-inte-
gration in mind will be necessary to evaluate its desirability as a
strategy.
9For further discussion of quasi-integration in the context of a particular raw
 material business, see D'Cruz (1979).
$22                                                       COMPETITIVE STRATEGY


Illusions in Vertical Integration Decisions

     There are some common misperceptions about the benefits of
vertical integration that must be guarded against:
      1. A strong market position in one stage can automatically be
          extended to the other.
      It is often said that the firm with a strong position in its base
business can integrate into a more competitive adjacent business and
extend its position to that market. Suppose a strong manufacturer of
consumer goods integrates forward into retailing, a very competitive
business. Although the integrated retailer might pick up all the man-
ufacturer's business, thereby increasing share, the manufacturer
might well be better served if many retailers were competing actively
to sell its product^.'^ The manufacturer could indeed raise its prices
to its captive retailer-though it would just be a bookkeeping trans-
fer of profits from one unit to another-but if the captive retailer
then adjusted.its prices, its competitive position would be worsened.
Thus the integration does not automatically allow the extension of a
strong market position at all. Only if the integration per se produced
some tangible benefits would integration allow the extension of mar-
ket power, because under these circumstances it would improve the
competitiveness of the combined entity.
      2. It is always cheaper to do things internally.
      As has been discussed, there are many potential hidden costs
and risks in vertical integration that may be avoided by dealing with
outside firms. There is also the possibility that clever contracting can
reap the benefits of integration without the costs or risks. The econo-
mies of integration are often looked at much too narrowly, and inte-
gration decisions thereby ignore many of these issues.
      3. It often makes sense to integrate into a competitive business.
      The deck is stacked against the advisability of integration into a
highly competitive industry. Firms in such an industry are earning
low returns and are competing vigorously to improve quality and
serve customers. There are many firms to choose from in buying or
selling. Vertical integration can dull incentives and blunt initiative.
I0If the adjacent industry into which integration is contemplated is very competitive,
 the firm may often be worse off if all its output is directed to a single captive cus-
  tomer or supplier than if it deals through the market. In the competitive industry
  the risks of being locked into one partner are usually the greatest.
The Strategic Analysis of Vertical Integration                         323
     4. Vertical integration can save a strategically sick business.
     Although a strategy of vertical integration can bolster the stra-
tegic position of a business under certain conditions already dis-
cussed, it is rarely a sufficient cure for a strategically sick business. A
strong market position cannot be automatically extended vertically
except under particular circumstances. Each stage of a vertical chain
must be strategically sound to insure the health of the enterprise as a
whole. If one link is sick, the sickness is more likely to spread to the
other healthy units, as the analysis presented earlier has shown,
rather than vice versa.
     5. Experience in one part of the vertical chain automatically
         qualifies management to direct upstream or downstream
         units.
     As has been discussed, the managerial characteristics of verti-
cally related businesses are often extremely different. A false sense
of security growing out of the proximity of the business can lead to
the destruction of the new upstream or downstream business, simply
by the process of applying historical managerial approaches.
capacity Expansion




Capacity expansion is one of the most significant strategic decisions
faced by firms, measured both in terms of the amount of capital in-
volved and the complexity of the decision-making problem. It is
probably the central aspect of strategy in commodity-type busi-
nesses. Because capacity additions can involve lead times measured
in years and capacity is often long lasting, capacity decisions require
the firm to commit resources based on expectations about conditions
far into the future. Two types of expectations are crucial: those
about future demand and those about competitors' behavior. The
importance of the former in capacity decisions is obvious. Accurate
expectations about competitors' behavior is essential as well, be-
cause if too many competitors add capacity, no firm is likely to es-
cape the adverse consequences. Thus, capacity expansion involves all
the classic problems of oligopoly, in which firms are mutually de-
pendent.
     The strategic issue in capacity expansion is how to add capacity
to further the objectives of the firm, in the hope of improving its
competitive position or market share, while avoiding industry over-
capacity. Undercapacity in an industry is rarely a problem, except
temporarily, since it will usually attract new investment. However,
because investments in capacity are largely irreversible, capacity
overshooting demand may well persist for long periods of time.
324
Capacity Expansion                                                  325

Overbuilding is indeed a problem that has repeatedly and severely
plagued many industries-paper, shipping, iron ore, aluminum, and
many chemical businesses, just to name a few.
     This chapter will explore the capacity expansion decision in a
strategic context. First, the elements of the decision will be outlined.
Since industry overbuilding is a chronic problem, the next section
will examine the causes of overbuilding and some approaches to pre-
venting it. Finally, the preemptive strategy for capacity expansion
will be discussed, a strategy that has become more common in the
1960s and 1970s.


Elements of the Capacity Expansion Decision

     The mechanics of making a capacity expansion decision in the
traditional capital budgeting sense are quite straightforward-any
finance textbook will supply the details. Future cash flows resulting
from the new capacity are forecasted and discounted to weigh them
against the cash outflows required for the investment. The resulting
net present value ranks the capacity addition against the other invest-
ment projects available to the firm.
     However, this simplicity masks an extremely subtle decision-
making problem. The firm usually has a number of options for add-
ing capacity which must be compared. In addition, to determine fu-
ture cash inflow from the new capacity the firm must predict future
profits. These will depend crucially on the size and timing of capa-
city decisions by each and every one of its competitors, as well as on
any number of other factors. There is also usually uncertainty about
future trends in technology, as well as about what future demand
will be.
     The essence of the capacity decision, then, is not the discounted
cash flow calculation but the numbers that go into it, including prob-
ability assessments about the future. Estimating these is in turn a
subtle problem in industry and competitor analysis (not financial
analysis).
     The simple calculation presented in finance textbooks does not
allow for uncertainty and alternate assumptions about competitors'
behavior. In view of the complexity of the discounted cash flow cal-
culation that properly includes these elements, it is useful to model
the capacity decision with as high a precision as possible. The steps
in Figure 15-1 describe the elements of the modeling process.
                                                           COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

           Determine the firm's options for the size and
           type of capacity additions


           Assess probable future demand and costs of inputs


           Assess probable technological changes and probability
           of obsolescence


           Predict capacity additions by each competitor based
           on the competitor's expectations about the industry


           Add these to determine industry supply and demand balance,
           and resulting industry prices and costs


           Determine expected cash flows from capacity addition


           Test the analysis for consistency

FIGURE 15-1. Elements of the Capacity Expansion Decision

      The steps in Figure 15-1 must be analyzed in an interactive fash-
ion. The first step is to determine the realistic options available to
the firm in adding capacity. Usually the size of the additions can
vary, and the degree of vertical integration of the new capacity may
be a variable as well. The addition of unintegrated capacity can be a
hedge against risk. Since the firm's own decision about how much
capacity to add can influence what its competitors do, each of its op-
tions must be analyzed separately in conjunction with competitor
behavior.
      Having developed the options, the firm then must make predic-
tions about future demand, input costs, and technology. Future tech-
nology is important because it is necessary to forecast the likelihood
that present additions to capacity will be made obsolete or that de-
sign changes will allow effective increases in capacity from in-place
facilities. Forecasting input prices must account for the possibility
that increased demand due to new capacity may increase input prices.
These predictions about demand, technology, and input costs will be
subject to uncertainty, and scenarios (Chapter 10) may be used as a
device for coping with this uncertainty for analytical purposes.
     The firm must next forecast how and when each and every one
of its competitors will add capacity. This is a subtle problem in com-
Capacity Expansion                                                    327

petitor analysis, which must draw on the full range of techniques
presented in Chapters 3, 4, and 5. Competitors' capacity moves will,
of course, be determined by their expectations about future demand,
costs and technology. Thus, predicting their behavior involves un-
covering (or guessing) what these expectations are likely to be.
      Predicting competitors' behavior is also an iterative process, be-
cause what one competitor does will influence the others, particular-
ly if that competitor is an industry leader. Therefore, competitors'
capacity additions must be played against each other to predict a
probable sequence of actions and resulting responses. There is a
bandwagon process in capacity expansion, to be discussed later,
which is important to try to forecast.
      The next step in the analysis is adding competitors' and the
firm's behavior to yield aggregate industry capacity and individual
market shares, which can be balanced against expected demand.
This step will allow the firm to estimate industry prices, and in turn,
expected cash flows from the investment.
      The whole process must be scrutinized for inconsistencies. If the
result of the predictions is that one competitor fares poorly by not
adding capacity, for example, the analysis may have to be adjusted
to allow that competitor to see the error of its ways and add capacity
late. Or if the entire process of predicted expansion leads to condi-
tions that violate most firms' predicted expectations, it may have to
be adjusted. The modeling of the capacity expansion process is com-
plex and will involve a great deal of estimation. However, the proc-
ess gives a firm a great deal of insight into what will drive expansion
in the industry, as well as possible ways to influence it in its favor.'
     A model of the capacity expansion process reveals that the
degree of uncertainty about the future is one of the central determi-
nants of the way the process proceeds. Where there is great uncer-
tainty about future demand any differences in risk aversion and fi-
nancial capabilities of firms will usually lead to an orderly expansion
process. Risk taking firms, those loaded with cash or with high stra-
tegic stakes in the industry, will jump in, whereas most firms will
wait and see what the future actually brings. However, if future de-
mand is perceived to be fairly certain, the capacity expansion process
becomes a game of preemption. With known future demand, firms
will race to get the capacity on stream to supply that demand, and
once they do so it will not be rational for others to add still more ca-
'A detailed computer model of capacity expansion in a complex industry is
 described in Porter and Spence (1978).
328                                                      COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

pacity. This game of preemption will generally be accompanied by
heavy market signaling to try to deter other firms from investing. The
problem occurs when too many firms try to preempt, and capacity is
overbuilt because firms mistake each others' intentions, misread sig-
nals, or misjudge their relative strengths and staying power. Such
a situation is one major cause of the overbuilding of industry capaci-
ty, which I will explore further.


Causes of Overbuilding Capacity

     There seems to be a strong tendency toward overbuilding of ca-
pacity, particularly in commodity businesses, that goes far beyond
that due to mistaken attempts at preemption. Since overbuilding is a
key problem in capacity expansion, we must explore its causes in
some detail.
     The risk of overbuilding is most severe in commodity businesses
for two reasons.
      1. Demand is generally cyclical. Cyclical demand not only
         guarantees overcapacity in downturns but also seems to lead
         to excessively optimistic expectations in upturns.
      2. Products are not differentiated. This factor makes costs
         crucial to competition, since the buyers' choice is heavily
         based on price. Also, the absence of brand loyalty means
         that firms' sales are closely tied to the amount of capacity
         they have. Thus, firms are under great pressure to have
         large, modern plants to be competitive and adequate capaci-
         ty to achieve their target market share.2
     A number of conditions lead to overbuilding in industries, both
in commodity businesses and other businesses, which can be divided
into the following categories. If one or more factors are present in an
industry the risks of overbuilding can be severe.

      TECHNOLOGICAL

     Adding Capacity in Large Lumps. The necessity to add capac-
ity in large units increases the risk that bunching of capacity deci-
'Demand is also often quite inelastic in commodity businesses. Inelastic demand
 may lengthen periods of excess capacity because price cutting by firms is unsuccess-
 ful in filling capacity by stimulating demand.
Capacity Expansion                                                                    329

sions will lead to serious overcapacity. This was a major factor in the
overcapacity of color picture tubes that developed in the late 1960s.
Many firms producing television sets perceived the need to assure a
supply of tubes, but the size of an efficient tube plant was very large
relative to that of a television set assembly plant. Demand did not
grow rapidly enough to absorb the massive color tube capacity put
on stream all at once.

     Economies of Scale or a Significant Learning Curve. This fac-
tor makes it more likely that attempts at preemptive behavior like
that previously described will occur. The firm with the largest capa-
city or which adds capacity early will have a cost advantage, putting
pressure on all firms to move quickly and aggressively.

      Long Lead Times in Adding Capacity. Long lead times re-
quire firms to base their decisions on projections of demand and
competitive behavior far into the future or pay a penalty in not capi-
talizing on opportunity if demand materializes.' Long lead times in-
crease the penalty to the firm who is left behind without capacity,
and hence may cause risk-averse firms to be more prone to invest
even though the capacity decision itself is risky.

     Increased Minimum Efficient Scale (MES). Where MES is in-
creasing and the new larger plants being built are significantly more
efficient, unless demand is growing rapidly the number of plants in
the industry must shrink or there will be overcapacity. Unless every
firm has several plants and can consolidate them, some firms will
necessarily have to reduce market share, something they may loathe
to do. More likely every firm will build the larger new facilities,
creating overcapacity.
     A variation of this situation has been occurring in the oil tanker
shipping industry, where the new Supertankers are many times the
size of the older vessels. The capacity of Supertankers ordered in the
early 1970s far exceeded the market demand.

     Changes in Production Technology. Changes in production
technology have the effect of attracting investment in the new tech-
nology, though plants using the old technology are left operating.
The higher the exit barriers for the old facilities, the less likely will
they be withdrawn from the market in an orderly way. This situation
'If a plant can be built in stages or if cancellation costs are not great, this problem is
 reduced.
330                                                COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

is occurring in the production of chemicals, in which there is a
changeover from natural gas to oil as a feedstock. When the oil-fed
plants come on stream, serious excess capacity is expected to occur,
which will slowly be eliminated as gas prices rise and gas-fed plants
are shut down.


      STRUCTURAL

     Significant Exit Barriers. Where exit barriers are significant,
inefficient excess capacity does not leave the market smoothly. This
factor accentuates and elongates periods of overcapacity.

     Forcing by Suppliers. Equipment suppliers, through sub-
sidies, easy financing, price cuts, and the like, can increase over-
building of capacity in their customers' industries. In a scramble for
orders, suppliers can also make it possible for marginal competitors
to build capacity who would be unable to under normal circum-
stances. Shipbuilders have forced capacity increases in the shipping
industry, aided by heavy government subsidies, to maintain employ-
ment. Lenders for new capacity can also accentuate the overbuilding
problem by providing capital to all comers. Aggressive real estate in-
vestment trusts (REITs) are partially to blame for overbuilding in
the U.S. hotel industry in the late 1960s and early 1970s, for e ~ a m p l e . ~

      Building Credibility. Some period of significant overcapacity
is often virtually required in industries trying to sell new products to
large buyers, particularly if a new product is an important input. Its
buyers will not switch to the new product until sufficient capacity is
on stream to meet their needs without making them vulnerable to a
few suppliers. This has been the case with the high-fructose corn
syrup industry.
     A related, and very common, case is one in which buyers strong-
ly encourage firms to invest in capacity with implied promises of fu-
ture business. They may do so directly or indirectly through state-
ments designed to indicate their feelings about the need for new
capacity. Of course buyers are not required to actually place orders
once the capacity is built; it is in their interest to insure that adequate
capacity exists to serve their greatest possible needs even if putting
'See Business Week, July 17, 1978.
Capacity Expansion                                                  331

that much capacity in place is not the most prudent decision for sup-
pliers-since this level of demand is quite unlikely.
     The pressure of buyers is strongest where the industry faces
close substitutes. Here lack of capacity can help substitutes penetrate
the industry, and firms are motivated to prevent it.

     Integrated Competitors. If competitors in the industry are
also integrated downstream, pressures for overbuilding may be in-
creased because each firm wants to protect its ability to supply its
downstream operations. Under these circumstances, if the firm has
insufficient capacity to supply demand, it will lose not only market
share in the industry but also possibly share (or greater risks of ob-
taining input supplies) in its downstream unit. Therefore, it is more
apt to insure it has enough capacity even if there is uncertainty about
future demand. A similar argument holds if competitors are inte-
grated upstream.

     Capacity Share Affects Demand. In industries such as airlines
the firm with the greatest capacity may get a disproportionate share
of demand because buyers are prone to approach it first. This char-
acteristic creates strong pressures for overbuilding capacity as sev-
eral firms strive for capacity leader~hip.~

      Age and Type of Capacity Affects Demand. In some indus-
tries, such as many service businesses, capacity is marketed directly
to buyers. Having the most modern, well-decorated fast-food outlet,
for example, may yield competitive benefits. In industries where
buyers choose among firms based solely or in part on the type of ca-
pacity they have available, these pressures for overcapacity exist.


     COMPETITIVE

      Large Number of Firms. The tendency toward overbuilding is
most severe when many firms have the strengths and resources to
add significant capacity to the market, and they are all trying to gain
market position and possibly to preempt the market. Paper, fer-
tilizer, corn milling, and shipping are industries in which large num-
bers of firms have contributed to making overbuilding a severe
problem.
'See Fruhan (1972).
                                               COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

     Lack of Credible Market Leader(s). If a number of firms are
vying for market leadership and no firm or firms have the credibility
to enforce an orderly expansion process, the instability of the proc-
ess is increased. A strong market leader, conversely, can credibly
add sufficient capacity to meet a major portion of industry demand,
if necessary, and can credibly retaliate against overaggressive build-
ing by others. Thus a strong leader or small group of leaders can
often orchestrate an orderly expansion through their announcements
and actions. The conditions for credibility and the mechanisms used
are discussed in Chapter 5.

     New entry. New entrants often create or aggravate the prob-
lem of overbuilding. They seek positions in the industry, often sig-
nificant ones, and incumbent firms refuse to yield. Entry has been a
major cause of overcapacity in such industries as fertilizer, gypsum,
and nickel. Businesses with easy entry are also subject to overbuild-
ing because entrants rush in in response to periods of favorable in-
dustry conditions.

     First Mover Advantages. Ordering and building capacity early
may offer advantages that tempt many firms to commit early to ca-
pacity when future prospects look favorable. Possible advantages
from committing early include short lead times in ordering equip-
ment, lower equipment costs, and the first opportunity to take ad-
vantage of supply/demand imbalances.


    INFORMATION FLOW

     Inflation of Future Expectations. There seems to be a process
by which expectations about future demand can become overinflated
as competitors listen to each other's public statements and to securi-
ty analysts. This situation appears to have occurred, for example, in
the ethylene and ethylene glycol industries. A related point is that
managers may be optimists who prefer positive action to inaction or
a negative posture.

     Divergent Assumptions or Perceptions. If firms have differ-
ing perceptions of each other's relative strengths, resources, and
staying power, they tend to destabilize the capacity expansion proc-
ess. Firms may misestimate (under or over) the likelihood that their
Capacity Expansion                                                  333

rivals will invest, leading them either to invest unwisely or not to in-
vest initially at all. The former case leads directly to overbuilding,
whereas in the latter case, the firm left behind may make a desperate
attempt to catch up, triggering a sequence of excessive investments.

     Breakdown of Market Signaling. Where firms no longer trust
market signals because of new entrants, changed conditions, recent
outbreaks of warfare, or other causes, the instability of the capacity
expansion process increases. Signaling that is credible, on the other
hand, promotes an orderly expansion by allowing firms to warn
others of planned moves, to plan for the expected starting and com-
pletion of capacity expansions, and so forth.

     Structural Change. Related to the preceding point, industry
structural change can often promote overbuilding of capacity, either
because it requires firms to invest in new types of capacity or because
the turmoil of structural change makes firms prone to misestimate
their relative strengths.

     Financial Community Pressure. Although the financial com-
munity can sometimes be a stabilizing force, often security analysts
seem to accentuate pressures toward overbuilding of capacity by
questioning managements who have not invested once their compet-
itors have. Also, managements' need to make positive statements to
the financial community to improve stock prices may lead to state-
ments that can be misinterpreted by competitors as aggressive,
prompting retaliation.


    MANAGERIAL

     Production Orientation of Management. Capacity overbuild-
ing seems to be particularly liable to occur when production has been
the traditional concern of management, as contrasted to marketing
or finance. In such businesses, pride in having the shiniest new
plants is high, and the perceived risk of being left behind in adding
the newest and most efficient capacity is great. Thus pressures for
overbuilding are compelling.

   Asymmetric Aversion to Risk. A strong case can be made that
managers lose more by being the only firm caught with insufficient
334                                            COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

capacity in a strong market than they do by having built too much
capacity, along with all their competitors, if demand fails to materi-
alize. In the latter case they can take safety in numbers and have not
lost relative position. In the former case, their jobs as well as the
company's strategic position may well be in jeopardy. Such an asym-
metry between the consequences of building and not building insures
that there will be strong pressures for all companies to build capacity
once a few have taken the plunge.


      GOVERNMENTAL

     Perverse Tax Incentives. Tax structures and/or investment tax
credits can sometimes encourage overinvestment. This is an acute
problem in shipping, where Scandinavian tax laws shelter profits re-
invested in capacity but tax uninvested profits. This motivates all
shippers to reinvest in capacity when industry conditions are good.
Overbuilding is also promoted by tax-free retention of earnings by
U.S. subsidiaries abroad.

     Desire for Indigenous Industry. Industries of such stature as
to be subject to a nationalistic fervor to have an indigenous industry
are prone to world overcapacity. Many countries will seek to estab-
lish a home-based industry, hoping to sell excess supply on world
markets. If minimum efficient scale is large relative to the world
market, it is likely to lead to overcapacity.

     Pressures to Increase or Maintain Employment. Governments
sometimes exert great pressures on firms to invest (or not disinvest)
to increase or maintain employment, a social goal. This factor ac-
centuates problems of overcapacity.


      LIMITS TO CAPACITY EXPANSION

    There are some checks against the tendency for overbuilding,
even when some of the conditions discussed are present. Some of the
most common are the following:
       Financing constraints
       Company diversification, which raises the opportunity cost
       of capital and/or widens the horizons of management who
Capacity Expansion                                                 335

       may have been production-oriented or prone to overbuild to
       protect their position in their traditional industry
       Infusion of top management with finance background to re-
       place management with marketing or production backgrounds
       Pollution control costs and other increased costs of new ca-
       pacity
       Great uncertainty about the future that is widely shared
       Severe problems because of previous periods of overcapacity
     Several of these conditions were present in the aluminum indus-
try in 1979, and as a result the industry may break from its pattern of
boom or bust in capacity utilization. Poor earnings resulting from
overcapacity in the late 1960s and restricted profits in high demand
years because of wage-price controls have left this industry financial-
ly unable to make major investments until several good years swell
the coffers. In addition the cost of constructing facilities has quad-
rupled since 1968 .6
      A firm can sometimes influence the capacity expansion process
in a number of ways, by using its own behavior to signal to competi-
tors about its expectations or plans or by otherwise trying to influ-
ence competitors' expectations. For example, the following actions
will tend to discourage capacity additions by competitors:
       a large announced capacity addition by the firm (see the next
       section of this chapter on preemptive strategies);
       announcements, other signals, or information that carries a
       discouraging message about future demand;
       announcements, other signals, or information that elevates
       the perceived likelihood of technological obsolescence of the
       current generation of capacity.



Preemptive Strategies

     One approach to capacity expansion in a growing market is the
preemptive strategy, in which the firm seeks to lock up a major por-
tion of the market to discourage its competitors from expanding and
to deter entry. If future demand is known with certainty, for exam-
ple, and a firm can build enough capacity to supply all the demand,
other firms may be discouraged from building capacity. Usually a
6New York Times, February 11,1979, p. Dl
                                                      COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

preemptive strategy requires not only investments in facilities but
also in withstanding marginal or even negative short-term financial
results; capacity is added in anticipation of demand, and prices are
often set in anticipation of future cost declines.
     The preemptive strategy is an inherently risky one because it in-
volves the early commitment of major resources to a market before
the market outcome is known. In addition, if it is unsuccessful in de-
terring competition it can lead to disastrous warfare since major
overcapacity results and the other firms attempting preemption have
made a major strategic commitment to the market from which it
may be hard to back down.
     As a result of the cost and risk of a preemptive strategy, it is im-
portant to set forth the conditions that must be present for success.
The preemptive strategy is risky partly because all these conditions
must be satisfied.

     Large Capacity Expansion Relative to Expected Market Size. If
a move is not large in relation to the expected size of the market, it
cannot be preemptive. Thus there are straightforward conditions for
the size of the capacity expansion that must be made to preempt a
market whose future demand conditions are known. However, a
crucial issue is the expectations each competitor and potential com-
petitor holds about future demand. If any competitor or potential
competitor believes that future demand will be large enough to ab-
sorb the preemptive capacity move and then some, it may choose to
invest as well. Thus a firm attempting preemption either must be
confident it knows the expectations of its competitors or must try to
influence those expectations in such a way as to insure that its move
will be viewed as preemptive.' If competitors' view of potential de-
mand is unrealistically high, the preempting firm must communicate
a credible commitment to quickly add further capacity if future de-
mand proves higher than initially anticipated.

      Large Economies of Scale Relative to Total Market Demand, or
Significant Experience Curve. If economies of scale are large rela-
tive to total market demand, an early preemptive capacity move may
deny competitors enough residual demand to be efficient (see Figure
15-2). In this case, competitors who invest must invest heavily and
risk a bloody battle to fill capacity, or they will have inherently
'Such as signaling certainty about future demand and technology.
Capacity Expansion




                                                       Residual       C, = unit cost of
          CR                                           Demand               preemptor
 UNIT
COSTS                                                                 CR = unit cost at
          CP                                                                  residual
                                                                              demand


                         Residual             Preemptive        Total
                         Demand                Capacity       Market Size
                                               Addition
                                            OUTPUT
FIGURE 15.2       Preemptive Capacity Given Economies of Scale

higher costs if they invest on a small scale. Either they will be de-
terred from investing at all, or if they invest on a small scale they will
have a permanent cost disadvantage.
      If there is a significant experience curve operating whose bene-
fits can be made proprietary, the early, large-scale investor in capa-
city will have a lasting cost advantage as well.

     Credibility of the Preempting Firm. The preemptive firm must
carry credibility in its announcements and moves that it is committed
to and able to execute the preemptive strategy. Credibility involves
the presence of resources, needed technological capacity, historical
delivery on planned investments, and so on.* Without credibility,
competitors either will not perceive the move as preemptive or will
be willing to take on the preemptor anyway.

     Ability to Signal Preemptive Motive Before Competitors Act.
A firm must be able to signal that it is preempting the market in ad-
vance of competitors' commitments to invest. Thus it must put a
preemptive amount of capacity in place before competitors even
consider capacity decisions, or more likely, it must be able to an-
nounce or otherwise credibly communicate its intentions. A firm
must have credibility in executing the preemptive strategy as dis-
cussed, and it must also have a credible way of indicating that pre-
emption is its motive.
'See Chapter 5 for a discussion of the factors that lead to a credible commitment.
338                                              COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

     Willingness of Competitors to Back Down. The preemptive
strategy assumes that competitors will weigh the potential returns of
fighting the preempting firm and conclude that they do not justify
the risks. A number of conditions may interfere with such a decision,
a common thread being perceived high stakes in establishing or
maintaining a significant position in the particular business being
contested. Preemption will be risky against the following types of
competitors:
      1. Competitors with goals other thari purely economic: If
         competitors highly value participation in the industry be-
         cause of a long history or other emotional commitments,
         they may try to maintain their position against the preemp-
         tor despite the presence of other favorable conditions for
         preemption as described above.
      2. Competitors for whom this business is a major strategic
         thrust or is related to others in their portfolio: In this situa-
         tion, even though it might be rational not to fight the pre-
         emptor firm were a competitor to view the contested busi-
         ness in isolation, it perceives its presence in the business as
         broadly significant. Thus it may be nearly impossible to suc-
         cessfully preempt.
      3. Competitors who have equal or better staying power, a
         longer time horizon, or a greater willingness to trade profits
         for market position: There may be competitors who will take
         a very long view of success in the business and be willing to
         battle it out for a long period of time. A preemptive strategy
         becomes questionable in such a situation.
Entry into New Businesses




This chapter examines the strategic decision to enter a new business.
It takes the point of view of the entering firm, for whom acquisition
is a strategy for entry as is entry through internal development.' An-
alytical techniques for looking at both forms of entry will be pre-
sented here, with an eye toward helping companies select the appro-
priate industry to enter and the best entry strategy.
      Although there are many complexities in finding, negotiating,
integrating, organizing, motivating and managing acquisitions and
internal development of new businesses, my purpose in this chapter
is somewhat narrower. The emphasis will be on how the tools of in-
dustry and competitor analysis described elsewhere in this book can
help managers make entry decisions. As we will see, some crucial ec-
onomic piinciples identify businesses that are attractive targets for
entry and help determine what company assets and skills will make
an entry profitable. These principles are essential to the success or
failure of entry, though they are quite often lost in the legitimate
concern for all the human, organizational, financial, legal, and ad-
'My frame of reference is improvement in the performance of the entering firm. I
 do not consider explicitly the question of how the stockholder fares from entry.
 Salter and Weinhold's (1979) interesting book explores that question in great de-
 tail.
340                                                     COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

ministrative factors that can also be important to the success or fail-
ure of a particular entry move.
     The economics of entry rests on some fundamental market
forces that are operating whenever entry occurs. If these market
forces work perfectly, in the economist's sense, then no entry deci-
sion can ever yield an above-average return on investment. This
startling statement is the key to analyzing the economics of entry-
finding industry situations in which the market forces are not work-
ing perfectly. The overriding conclusion from our analysis is that
even putting aside all the problems of integrating and managing new
businesses, the acquisition or internal development of sound, well-
managed businesses in favorable industry environments is far from
sufficient to assure successful entry, despite the widespread belief to
the contrary. However, there are many possibilities for successful
entry, as I will discuss.


Entry through Internal Development

      Entry through internal development involves the creation of a
new business entity in an industry, including new production capa-
city, distribution relationships, sales force, and so on. Joint ventures
raise essentially the same economic issues because they are also new-
ly started entities, although they create complicated questions about
the division of efforts among the partners and who has effective con-
tr01.~
     The first important point in analyzing internal development is
that it requires the firm to confront directly the two sources of entry
barriers into an industry-structural entry barriers and the expected
reaction of incumbent firms. The entrant through internal develop-
ment (hereafter termed internal entrant) must pay the price of over-
coming structural entry barriers and face the risk that existing firms
will retaliate. The cost of the former usually involves up-front in-
vestments and start-up losses, which become part of the investment
base in the new business. The risk of retaliation by existing firms can
be viewed as an additional cost of entry, equal to the magnitude of
=Joint ventures should be analyzed in the same fashion as an internal entry. If a
 joint venture passes this hurdle, the partner must then be scrutinized for any clues
about whether its goals, expectations, or managerial proclivities concerning the
venture diverge from that of the firm. Such differences may make even a sound
business proposition unworkable as a joint venture.
Entry into New Businesses                                                        341

the adverse affects of retaliation (e.g., lower prices and escalated
marketing costs) multiplied by the likelihood that retaliation will
occur.
     In Chapter 1, I described in some detail the sources of structural
entry barriers and the factors that determine the likelihood of retali-
ation. The appropriate analysis of a decision to enter will balance the
following costs and benefits:
     1. the investment costs required to be in the new business, such
        as investment in manufacturing facilities and inventory
        (some of which may be elevated by structural entry barriers);
     2. the additional investment required to overcome other
        structural entry barriers, such as brand identification and
        proprietary technology3;
     3. the expected cost from incumbents' retaliation against the
        entry, balanced against
     4. the expected cash flows from being in the industry.
     Many capital budgeting treatments of the entry decision neglect
one or more of these factors. For example, too often the financial
analysis assumes the industry prices and costs prevailing before entry
and measures only the clearly visible investments necessary to the
business, like constructing manufacturing facilities and assembling a
sales force. Ignored are the more subtle costs of overcoming struc-
tural entry barriers, such as established brand franchises, distribu-
tion channels tied up by competitors, competitors' access to the most
favorable sources of raw materials, or the need to develop propri-
etary technology. Also, new entry can raise the prices of scarce sup-
plies, equipment, or labor, which means that the entering firm must
bear higher costs.
     Another factor often neglected is the effect the entrant's new ca-
pacity will have on the supply-demand balance in the industry. If the
internal entrant's addition to industry capacity is significant, its ef-
forts to fill its plant will mean that at least some other firms will have
excess capacity. High fixed costs are likely to trigger price cutting or
other efforts to fill capacity which will persist until someone exits
from the business or until the excess capacity is eliminated by indus-
try growth or retirement of facilities.
'The investments required to enter an industry through internal development may
 seem high relative to the cost of acquisition depending on the state of the acquisi-
 tion market, to be discussed later. Currently, the perceived high costs of internal
 entry are driving many companies to the acquisition market.
342                                            COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

     Even more often neglected in the entry decision is the impact of
the probable reactions of existing firms. Under conditions described
below, existing firms will react to an entry in a variety of ways. One
common reaction is to shave prices, which may mean that the indus-
try prices assumed inproforma calculations of the desirability of en-
try must be lower than those prevailing before entry. Prices are often
depressed for years after an entry occurs, as they were in corn wet
milling following the entries of Cargill and Archer-Daniels-Midland.
Entry by Georgia-Pacific also has been disruptive to prices in the
gypsum i n d ~ s t r y . ~
     Other reactions of existing firms may be escalation in marketing
activities, special promotions, extension of warranty terms, easier
credit, and product quality improvements.
     Another possibility is that an entry will trigger a round of exces-
sive capacity expansion in the industry, particularly if the new en-
trant comes in with more up-to-date facilities than some incumbents
have. Industries differ in their instability with regard to capacity ex-
pansion, and some of the factors that will make an industry volatile
have been described in Chapter 15.
     The extent of these reactions and their probable duration must
be forecast, and the prices or costs built into thepro forma entry cal-
culation adjusted accordingly.


      WILL RETALIATION OCCUR?

     Incumbents will retaliate to entry if it pays to do so based on ec-
onomic and noneconomic considerations. Internal entry is most like-
ly to be disruptive and to provoke retaliation, which will harm future
prospects, in the following kinds of industries (they are therefore
risky entry targets):

     Slow Growth. Internal entry will always take some market
share from existing firms. However, in a slow-growing market this
will be especially unwelcome because it may involve a drop in abso-
lute sales, and vigorous retaliation is likely. If the market is growing
rapidly, incumbents can continue strong financial performance even
though an entrant takes some market share, and capacity added by
the entrant is more quickly utilized without destroying prices.
'See Forbes, September 18, 1978.
Entty into New Businesses                                            343

     Commodity or Commodity-Like Products. In such businesses
there are no brand loyalties or segmented markets to insulate incum-
bents from the effects of a new entrant, and vice versa. Entry in such
a situation affects the entire industry, and price cutting is especially
likely to occur.

     High Fixed Costs. When fixed costs are high, the addition of
the new entrant's capacity to the market is prone to trigger retalia-
tory action by competitors if their capacity utilization falls signifi-
cantly.

     High Industry Concentration. In such industries an entrant is
particularly noticeable and may make a significant dent in one or
more incumbent's market position. In a highly fragmented industry,
the entrant may affect many firms but have only marginal impact.
None of them will be hurt badly enough to retaliate vigorously, and
none is likely to have the capability to inflict a penalty on the new en-
trant. In assessing probable retaliation it is obviously important to
identify how seriously each of the incumbents will be affected. The
more the effects are felt unequally by incumbents, the more likely
are the most seriously affected firms to retaliate. If the shock of the
entrant is spread over all the incumbents, it may be less threatening.

     Incumbents Who Attach High Strategic Importance to Their
Position in the Business. When there are incumbents affected by
the new entrant who place a high premium strategically on maintain-
ing their share in the business, entry can evoke sharp retaliation.
Strategic importance may be the result of heavy dependence on the
business for cash flow or future growth, its position as a flagship
business for the company, interrelationship between the business
and others in the company, and so on. The factors that make a busi-
ness strategically important to a company are described in Chapter 3
and in the discussion of exit barriers in Chapter 12.

     Attitudes of Incumbent Management. The presence of long-
established incumbents, particularly if they are single business com-
panies, can result in a volatile reaction to an entry move. In such
industries entry is often taken as an affront or an injustice, and
retaliation can be very bitter. More generally, the attitudes and back-
grounds of the managements of incumbents can play a major role in
retaliation. Some managements may have histories or orientations
                                                        COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

that make them feel more threatened by entry or more likely to react
vindictively. '
     The past behavior of incumbents concerning entry threats will
often provide some indication of how they will react to a new en-
trant. Behavior toward past entrants and toward incumbents trying
to shift strategic groups are especially useful clues.


     IDENTIFYING TARGET INDUSTRIES FOR INTERNAL ENTRY

      Assuming the potential entrant will properly analyze the ele-
ments of the decision described above, where is internal entry most
likely to be attractive? The answer to this question flows from the
basic framework of structural analysis. The expected profitability of
firms in an industry depends on the strength of the five competitive
forces: rivalry, substitution, bargaining power of suppliers and
buyers, and entry. Entry acts as a balance in determining industry
profits. If an industry is stable, or in equilibrium, the expected prof-
its of entrants should just reflect the height of structural barriers to
entry and the legitimate expectations of entrants about retaliation.
The potential entrant, calculating its expected profits, should find
that they are normal, or average profits, even though the profits of
incumbents may be high. Because the entrant must overcome struc-
tural entry barriers and bear the risk of reaction from going firms,
it faces higher costs than the successful firms in the industry, and
these costs eliminate its above-average profits. If the costs of entry
did not offset the above-average returns, other firms would already
have entered and driven profits down to the level where the costs of
entry and the benefits of entry cancel. Thus it will rarelypay to enter
an industry in equilibrium unless the firm has special advan-
tages-market forces are at work that eliminate the returns.
     How, then, does a company expect to achieve above-average re-
turns from entry? The answer lies in identifying those industry situa-
tions in which the market mechanism I have described is not working
perfectly. Prime targets for internal entry by a firm fall into one of
the following categories:
     1. The industry is in disequilibrium.
     2. Slow or ineffectual retaliation from incumbents may be
        expected.
'For some discussion about this point, see Chapter 3.
Entry into New Businesses                                             345

      3. The firm has lower entry costs than other firms.
      4. The firm has distinctive ability to influence the industry
         structure.
      5. There will be positive effects on a firm's existing businesses.

      INDUSTRIES IN DISEQUILIBRIUM

      Not all industries are in equilibrium.

       New Industries. In new, rapidly growing industries, the com-
petitive structure is usually not well established and the costs of entry
may be much less than they will be for later entrants. Probably no
firm will have locked up supplies of raw materials, created signifi-
cant brand identification, or have much proclivity to retaliate to an
entry. Going firms may face limits on the rate at which they can ex-
pand. However, a firm should not enter a new industry just because
it is a new industry. Entry will not be justified unless a full structural
analysis (Chapter 1) leads to the prediction of above-average profits
for a period long enough to justify the investment. It is also impor-
tant to note that in some industries the cost of entry for pioneers is
greater than that for firms entering later, just because of the costs of
pioneering. Some analytical techniques for identifying whether early
or later entry is appropriate are discussed in Chapter 10 on emerging
industries. Finally, other entrants may well be forthcoming into a
new industry, and in order for it to expect profits to remain high the
firm must have some economic basis for believing that later entrants
will face entry costs higher than its own.

      Rising Entry Barriers. Increasing entry barriers mean that fu-
ture profits will more than offest the current costs of entry.6 Being
first or one of the early entrants can minimize entry costs and also
sometimes yield an advantage in product differentiation. However,
if many other firms also enter early, this door may be closed. Thus
the premium in such industries is on moving early and then facilitat-
ing the rise in entry barriers to block later entrants.

     Poor Information. A long-run imbalance between the cost of
entry and expected profits may be present in some industries because
of lack of recognition of this fact by potential entrants. This situa-
'Entry barriers often are rising in new industries.
346                                                     COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

tion may occur in "backwater," or obscure, industries which do not
come to the attention of many established firms.

     It is essential to realize that market forces will be working
against the success of the entering firm to some extent. Where the
prospects for entry are good because of disequilibrium, the market
will be sending the same signals to others, who will be prone to enter
as well. Thus a decision to enter must carry with it some clear notion
of why the entrant and not other firms will reap the benefits of dis-
equilibrium. Often the ability to forecast this rests on the advantages
of getting in early by spotting the disequilibrium first. But unless the
entrant can create some barriers to imitation, the advantages of
being early may be eroded (though not eliminated) over time. An en-
try strategy must include consideration of such issues and a plan for
dealing with them.


     There may also be a favorable imbalance between expected
profits and the cost of entry in industries whose incumbents are prof-
itable but are sleepy, poorly informed, or otherwise impeded from
timely or effective retaliation. If a firm can be among the first to dis-
cover such an industry, it can reap above-average profits.
     Industries that may be ripe targets for entry do not have the
characteristics leading to vigorous retaliation (given earlier) and pos-
sess some other unique factors.
      Incumbents' cost of effective retaliation outweighs the benefits.
The firm considering entry must examine the calculation each signif-
icant incumbent will make in deciding how vigorously to retaliate. It
must forecast how large a profit erosion the incumbent must bear if
it tries to inflict losses on the entrant. Are incumbents likely to think
they can outlast the entrant? The larger the costs of retaliation ver-
sus the benefits incumbents want to achieve, the less likely they will
retaliate.
      The entrant not only can choose industries in which incumbents
are less likely to retaliate but also can influence the probability of re-
taliation. For example, if the entrant can convince incumbents that it
will never give up in its quest for a viable position in the industry,
they may not waste money attempting to dislodge it completely.'
'See Chapter 5 for a discussion of ways in which a firm, including an entrant, might
 communicate such a commitment.
Entry into New Businesses                                             347

      There is a paternal dominant firm or tight group of longstand-
ing leaders. A dominant firm with a paternal view toward the indus-
try may have never had to compete and may be slow to learn. The
leader (or leaders) may see itself as the protector of the industry and
its spokesperson. It may behave in ways that are best for the industry
(e.g., hold up prices, preserve product quality, maintain high levels
of customer service or technical help) but not necessarily best for it.
An entrant can take a significant position as long as the leader is not
provoked to (or is unable to) respond. This sort of situation may well
have existed in nickel and corn milling, in which INCO and CPC
have lost major positions to new players. Of course the risk in this
strategy is that the sleeping giant will be awakened, and thus a judg-
ment about the nature of its management is crucial.
      Incumbents' costs of responding are great given the need to pro-
tect their existing businesses. This situation offers possibilities for
the mixed-motive strategy discussed in Chapter 3. For example, re-
sponding to an entrant who is using a new distribution channel may
alienate existing distributors' loyalties. Opportunity is also present
if an incumbent's response to a new competitor will cut into sales
of its bread and butter products, will help legitimize the strategy of
the entrant, or will be inconsistent with the incumbent's image in the
marketplace.
     The entrant can exploit conventional wisdom. When incum-
bents believe in conventional wisdoms or certain key assumptions
about how to compete in the industry, a firm with no preconceived
notions can often see situations in which the conventional wisdom is
inappropriate or outmoded. Conventional wisdom can creep into
product line, service, plant location, and nearly any other aspect of a
competitive strategy. Incumbents may cling tenaciously to such con-
ventional wisdom because it has worked well in the past.


      A more common and less risky situation where market forces do
not negate the attractiveness of internal entry is an industry in which
not all firms face the same entry costs. If a firm can overcome struc-
tural entry barriers into an industry more cheaply than most other
potential entrants, or if it can expect less retaliation, a firm can reap
above-average profits from entry. The firm also may have special
advantages in competing in the industry that outweigh entry bar-
riers.
348                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

     The ability to overcome structural entry barriers more cheaply
than other potential entrants usually rests on the presence of assets
or skills drawn from the entrant's existing businesses or on innova-
tions that provide a strategic concept for entry. The firm can look
for industries in which it has capability to overcome entry barriers
because of proprietary technology, established distribution chan-
nels, a recognized and transferable brand name, and so on. If many
other potential entrants have the same advantages, then these advan-
tages will probably already be reflected in the balance between the
cost of entry and the benefits of entry. However, if the firm's ability
to overcome structural entry barriers is unique or distinctive, the en-
try is likely to be profitable. Examples are General Motors' entry
into recreational vehicles, utilizing chassis, engines, and a dealer net-
work drawn from its automobile operations; and John Deere's entry
into construction equipment, utilizing manufacturing technology
and experience in product design and service drawn from its agricul-
tural equipment business.
     A firm might also receive less vigorous retaliation by incum-
bents than other potential entrants, either because the firm com-
manded great respect as a competitor or because its entry was some-
how deemed not threatening. The entrant could command respect
because of its size and resources or because of its reputation as a fair
competitor (or conversely a ruthless one). The entrant might be seen
as nonthreatening because of its history of confining its operations
to small niches in the market, of not cutting prices, and so on. If the
firm has a distinctive advantage in expecting less retaliation for any
of these reasons, its expected cost of retaliation will be lower than
other potential entrants, and entry can thereby offer potentially
above-average profits.




     Internal entry will be profitable despite the market forces if the
firm has some distinctive ability to change the structural equilibrium
in the target industry. If the firm can increase mobility barriers in the
industry for subsequent entrants, for example, the structural equilib-
rium in the industry will change. The initiator will then be in a posi-
tion to reap above-average profits from entry. Also, entry into a
fragmented market can sometimes start in motion a process that
Entry into New Businesses                                                349

greatly increases mobility barriers and leads to consolidation, as was
discussed in Chapter 9.



     Internal entry will be profitable, even in the absence of the con-
ditions described above, if it has a beneficial impact on the entrant's
existing businesses. This impact could occur through the improve-
ment of distributor relations, company image, defense against
threats, and so on. Thus even if the new business earns an average re-
turn, the company as a whole will be better off.
     Xerox's proposed entry into national digital data transmission
networks may be an example of entry on this basis.' Xerox seems to
be trying to build a broad base in the "office of the future." Since
data transmission among computers, electronic mail, and elaborate
linkage of company locations is likely to be part of this future-as
well as conventional copying-Xerox may be trying to protect its ex-
isting strong base even though it has no special advantages in the
data network business. Another example is Eaton Corporation's re-
cent move into auto repair outlets. As a leading manufacturer of re-
pair parts, Eaton has a stake in opening up markets and in keeping
business away from the automobile manufacturers' captive dealer
service departments, who use manufacturers' parts exclusively. Even
though Eaton may have no reason to suspect above-average returns
in auto repair per se, such an entry can boost its overall returns.


     GENERIC CONCEPTS FOR ENTRY

     Some common approaches to entry, which rest on various con-
cepts for overcoming entry barriers more cheaply than other firms,
are as follows:

     Reduce Product Costs. Finding a way to produce the product
at lower cost than incumbents. Possibilities are (1) an entirely new
process technology; (2) a larger plant, reaping greater economies of
scale; (3) more modern facilities, incorporating technological im-
'For a brief discussion of this planned move, see Business Week. November 27,
1978.
350                                            COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

provements; (4) shared activities with existing businesses that yield a
cost advantage.

     Buy in with Low Price. Buy into the market by sacrificing re-
turns in the short run to force competitors to yield share. The success
of this approach depends on competitors' unwillingness or inability
to retaliate in the face of the particular strengths of the entrant.

     Offer a Superior Product, Broadly Defined. Offer an innova-
tion in product or service that allows the entrant to overcome prod-
uct differentia tion barriers.

     Discover a New Niche. Find an unrecognized market segment
or niche which has distinctive requirements the firm can cater to.
This move allows the entrant to overcome existing barriers in prod-
uct differentiation (and perhaps distribution channels).

     Introduce a Marketing Innovation. Find a new way to market
the product which overcomes product differentiation barriers or cir-
cumvents distributors' power.

     Use Piggybacked Distribution. Build an entry strategy on es-
tablished distribution relationships drawn from other businesses.



Entry Through Acquisition

     Entry through acquisition is subject to a completely different
analytical framework than entry through internal development be-
cause acquisition does not add a new firm to the industry in the di-
rect sense. As we will see, however, some of the same factors that de-
termine the attractiveness of an internal entry will affect a candidate
for acquisition.
     The critical point is the recognition that the price of an acquisi-
tion is set in the market for companies. The market for companies is
the marketplace in which owners of companies (or business units)
are sellers and acquiring companies are buyers. In most industrial-
ized nations, particularly the United States, the market for com-
Entry into New Businesses                                                 351

panies is a very active market in which many companies are bought
and sold every year. The market is well organized, involving finders,
brokers, and investment bankers all seeking to match buyers and
sellers and often reaping large commissions for doing so. The mar-
ket has become more organized in recent years as both intermedi-
aries and participants have become more sophi~ticated.~          Intermedi-
aries now work actively to generate multiple bidders for selling
firms, and multiple bids are common. The market for companies is
also a market about which much is written in the press and many sta-
tistics are now collected. All these things suggest that the market will
function relatively efficiently.
      An efficient market for companies works to eliminate any
above-average profits from making an acquisition. If a company has
sound management and attractive future prospects, its price will be
bid up in the market. Conversely, if its future is dim or if it requires
massive infusions of capital, its sale price will be low relative to book
value. To the extent that the market for companies is working effi-
ciently, then, the price of an acquisition will eliminate most of the re-
turns for the buyer.
      Contributing to the market's efficiency is the fact that the seller
usually has the option of keeping and operating the business. In
some situations the seller has compelling reasons to sell and is there-
by vulnerable to accepting whatever price the market for companies
sets. However, to the extent that the seller has the alternative of op-
erating the business it will not rationally sell if the sale price does not
exceed the expected present value of continuing to operate the busi-
ness. This expected present value puts a floor under the price for the
business. The price that results from the bidding process in the mar-
ket for companies must exceed this floor, or the transaction will not
take place. In practice, the price for the acquisition must significant-
ly exceed the floor to give the owners a premium for selling. In to-
day's market for companies, large premiums over market value are
the rule rather than the exception.
      This analysis suggests that it is quite difficult to win at the ac-
quisition game. The market for companies and the seller's alterna-
tive of continuing to operate the business work against reaping
above-average profits from acquisitions. Perhaps this is why acquisi-
tions so often seem not to meet managers' expectations, as is sug-
9Historically the market for companies has functioned much less formally, and
 predominantly through personal contacts.
352                                              COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

gested by much survey evidence. This analysis is also consistent with
the conclusions of a number of studies by economists which suggest
that the seller, and not the buyer, usually captures most of the spoils
from an acquisition.
     However, the real power of this analysis lies in directing atten-
tion toward the conditions that determine whether or not a particu-
lar acquisition will have a good chance of yielding an above-average
return. Acquisitions will most likely be profitable if
      1. the floor price created by the seller's alternative of keeping
         the business is low;
      2. the market for companies is imperfect and does not elimi-
         nate above-average returns through the bidding process;
      3. the buyer has a unique ability to operate the acquired
         business.
It is crucial to note that the bidding process can eliminate the profit-
ability of an acquisition even if the floor price is low. Thus favorable
conditions in at least two of the areas are necessary for success.


      THE HEIGHT OF THE FLOOR PRICE

     The floor price for an acquisition is set by the seller's alternative
of keeping the business. It clearly depends on the perceptions of the
seller, and not the perceptions of buyers or of the market for com-
panies. Obviously the floor will be lowest when the seller feels the
greatest compulsion to sell, for example, because of the following:
        the seller has estate problems;
        the seller needs capital quickly;
        the seller has lost key management or sees no successors for
        existing management.
     The floor price will also be low if the seller is not optimistic
about its prospects if it were to continue to operate the business. The
seller may believe its ability to operate the business is inferior to that
of buyers if
        the seller perceives capital constraints to growth;
        the seller recognizes its managerial weaknesses.
Entry into New Businesses


     IMPERFECTIONS IN THE MARKET FOR COMPANIES

      Despite its high level of organization, the market for companies
is subject to a variety of imperfections, that is, situations in which
the bidding process will not completely eliminate the profits from an
acquisition. These imperfections stem from the fact that the market
for companies is trading products each of which is unique, that in-
formation is highly incomplete, and that buyers and sellers often
have complex motives. Imperfections in the market leading to suc-
cessful acquisitions will occur in the following situations, among
others:
     1. The buyer has superior information. A buyer may be in a
better position to forecast favorable future performance from an ac-
quisition than other buyers. It may know the industry or the trends
in technology or have insights that other potential bidders do not. In
this case the bidding will stop short of eliminating all above-average
returns.
     2. The number of bidders is low. The probability that the bid-
ding process will not eliminate all the returns from the acquisition is
increased if the number of bidders is small. The number may be low
if the candidate is an unusual business that would not fit with or be
understood by many potential acquirors or if the candidate is very
large (and not many buyers can afford it). The way in which the
buyer conducts negotiations can discourage the seller from seeking
other bidders ("we will not participate in a bidding war").
     3. The condition of the economy is bad. It appears that the
state of the economy affects not only the number of buyers but also
what they are willing to pay. Thus a company may reap potentially
above-average returns by being willing to deal during economic
downturns if it is suffering less than other bidders.
     4 . The selling company is sick. There is some evidence that sick
companies are more heavily discounted than a true expected-value
analysis would suggest, perhaps because acquirors all seem to be
looking for sound companies with good management. Thus the
number of bidders for sick companies may be lower, as well as the
prices they are willing to pay. White Consolidated appears to have
successfully taken advantage of this situation by purchasing ailing
companies or divisions at below book value and apparently making
them profitable.
354                                             COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

      5 . The seller has objectives besides maximizing the price re-
ceived for the businesses. Luckily for acquirors, not all sellers try to
maximize the price they receive for their business. Since the selling
prices of companies are often well in excess of what their owners be-
lieve they need for financial well-being, sellers often value other
things. Common examples are the name and reputation of the buyer,
the way in which the seller's employees will be treated, whether the
seller's management will be retained, and how much the buyer will
interfere in running the business if the owner plans to stay on. Com-
panies selling divisions are somewhat less likely to have such noneco-
nomic objectives than are owners or owner-managers selling an en-
tire company, although they still can be present.
      This analysis suggests that acquirors should look for companies
who will have noneconomic objectives and should cultivate these ob-
jectives. It also suggests that certain acquirors may have advantages
because of the story they can tell sellers. If they can demonstrate
good treatment of employees and management of acquisitions in the
past, for example, their case with potential sellers will be made more
credible. Large prestigious acquirors may also have an edge for simi-
lar reasons, since owners want to associate their life's work (their
company) with a blue chip organization.


      UNIQUE ABILITY TO OPERATE THE SELLER

      The buyer can bid more than other buyers and still achieve
                                                                ,
above-average returns under the following conditions:
      1 . The buyer has a distinctive ability to improve the operations
of the seller. A buyer with distinctive assets or skills that can im-
prove the strategic position of the acquisition candidate can achieve
above-average returns from the acquisition. The other bidders, as-
suming less improvement of the acquisition in their calculations, will
stop bidding before the returns are eliminated. Well-known exam-
ples of such acquisitions are Campbell's of Vlasic and Gould's of
ITE.
     Possessing the ability to improve the acquisition candidate is
not enough in and of itself. This ability must to some degree be dis-
tinctive, because if it is not, there are likely to be other firms around
who will see the same potential. These firms may keep the bidding
going until the returns from making the improvements are elimi-
nated by the price.
Entry into New Businesses                                            355

      Entry through acquisition and through internal development
are the most similar in this approach. In both cases, the buyer must
have some distinctive ability to compete in the new business. In the
case of acquisition, the firm is able to outbid others for the candidate
and still earn above-average profits. In the case of internal develop-
ment, the firm is able to overcome barriers to entry more cheaply
than other firms.
      2. The firm buys into an industry that meets the criteria for in-
ternal development. Many of the same points about favorable indus-
tries made in the context of internal entry can apply here. If the
acquiror can use the acquisition as a base from which to change in-
dustry structure or to exploit conventional wisdom, or can take ad-
vantage of slow or ineffective response by incumbents to strategy
changes, for example, possibilities for above-average returns in the
industry are good.
      3. The acquisition will uniquely help a buyer's position in its
existing businesses. If the acquisition can add something to bolster
the buyer's position in its existing businesses, the profitability of the
acquisition may not be eliminated in the bidding process. A good ex-
ample of this logic as a motivation for acquisition is R.J. Reynolds'
recent acquisition of Del Monte. Reynolds has a number of food
brands (Hawaiian Punch, Chun King, Vermont Maid, and others)
but has failed to achieve significant market penetration for most of
them. The acquisition of Del Monte will provide a distribution sys-
tem, more clout with food brokers, and entrance into international
markets where Reynolds' existing brands are weak. Even if Del
Monte yields only average returns, its positive affect on the rest of
Reynolds' food strategy may mean an above-average return from
the transaction.


    IRRATIONAL BIDDERS

      When bidding for acquisition candidates, it is extremely impor-
tant to examine the motives and situation of other bidders. Although
bidding will usually stop once above-average returns are eliminated,
it is important to recognize that some competing bidders may con-
tinue long after, from one firm's point of view, the returns are elimi-
nated. This might happen for a number of reasons:
       the bidder sees a unique way to improve the acquisition
       target;
356                                            COMPETITIVE STRATEGY

       the acquisition will help the bidder's existing business;
       the bidder has goals or motives other than the maximization
       of profit-perhaps growth is the primary objective, the bid-
       der sees the possibility for a one-shot financial gain, or the
       bidder desires a firm of the type of the acquisition target
       because of the idiosyncracies of its management.
     In such a case, it is important not to take the willingness of the
bidder to raise the price as an indication of the acquisition's value. A
careful analysis of the factors entering into the bidder's reservation
price is indicated.



Sequenced Entry

     Any decision to enter an industry must include a target strategic
group. However, the discussion in Chapter 7 combined with the
analysis earlier in this chapter suggests that a firm can adopt a se-
quential strategy of entry involving initial entry into one group and
subsequent mobility from group to group. For example, Procter and
Gamble acquired the Charmin Paper Company, which had high-
quality toilet tissue and some production facilities, but little or no
brand identification and only regional distribution. Starting from a
base in this strategic group, Procter and Gamble invested substantial
resources in creating brand identification, achieving national distri-
bution, and improving the product and production facilities. Thus,
Charmin was shifted into a new strategic group.
     Such a strategy of sequential entry may lower the total cost of
overcoming mobility barriers into the strategic group that is the ulti-
mate target, and may lower the risks. Costs can be lowered by ac-
cumulating knowledge and brand indentification in the industry
through entry into the initial group, which is then used at no cost for
mobility into the ultimate target group. Managerial talent can be de-
veloped in a more measured way in this fashion. Also the reaction of
existing firms to entry might be tempered by such a sequenced
strategy.
     A sequenced strategy often lowers the risks of entry because the
firm can segment the risk. If it fails in its initial entry, the firm is
spared the cost of going further; it would have to put all its chips on
the table if it tried to enter the ultimate target group right away. Se-
quenced entry also allows the firm to accumulate capital for subse-
Entry into New Businesses                                            357

quent shifts in position, for which it might have to pay a stiff price if
all were needed at once. In addition, a firm can choose to take its
first step into a strategic group in which overcoming mobility bar-
riers requires relatively reversible investments (plant capacity that is
salable). For example, a firm's initial entry might be into production
for a private label. Only if it is successful at this step will the firm
then attempt entry into a strategic group where heavy investments in
advertising, R & D, or other unsalvageable areas are required to
overcome mobility barriers.
      The analysis of sequenced entry can be turned around to derive
implications for existing firms in the industry. If there are particular-
ly safe sequenced entry strategies, then it clearly pays to direct in-
vestments in mobility barriers to close them off.
Appendixes
APPENDIXA
Portfolio ~khniques   In
Cornpet itor Analysis



Since the late 1960s a number of techniques have been developed for
displaying a diversified firm's operations as a "portfolio" of busi-
nesses. These techniques provide simple frameworks for charting or
categorizing the different businesses in a firm's portfolio and deter-
mining the implications for resource allocation. Techniques for
portfolio analysis have their greatest applicability in developing
strategy at the corporate level and in aiding in corporate review of
business units, rather than in developing competitive strategy in indi-
vidual industries. Nevertheless, if their limitations are understood,
these techniques can play a part in answering some of the questions
in competitor analysis raised in Chapter 3, particularly if a firm is
competing with a diversified rival who uses them in its strategic plan-
ning.
     There have been many written accounts of the most-used tech-
niques for portfolio analysis, and an extensive discussion of their
mechanics will not be presented here. ' Rather the focus will be on out-
lining the key elements of the two most commonly used techniques-
the growth/share matrix identified with the Boston Consulting
Group (BCG) and the company position/industry attractiveness
'For extensive discussion of these technikpes see Abell and Harnrnond (1979),
 chaps. 4,s; Day (1977); Salter and Weinhold (1979). chap. 4.
362                                                                      APPENDIX A

screen identified with GE and McKinsey-and discussing their use in
competitor analysis.



The Growth/Share Matrix

     The growth/share matrix is based on the use of industry growth
and relative market share 2 as proxies for (1) the competitive position
of a firm's business unit in its industry and (2) the resulting net cash
flow required to operate the business unit. This formula reflects the
underlying assumption that the experience curve (discussed in Chap-
ter 1) is operating and that the firm with the largest relative share will
thereby be the lowest cost producer.
      These premises lead to a portfolio chart like that shown in Fig-
ure A-1, on which each of a firm's business units can be plotted. Al-
though the cut-offs in terms of growth and relative market share are
arbitrary, the growth/share portfolio chart is usually divided into

FIGURE A-1.         GrowthlShareMatrix




             High
                       *         Star
                                Modest
                                 + or -
                                                               Question Mark
                                                                   Large
                                                                  Negative
                                                                                 ?
                               Cash Flow

 Growth
             10%
(Cash Use)

                              Cash Cow
             Low                 Large                             Modest
                                Positive
                               Cash Flow                         Cash Flow



                                 High              1 .O            Low

                                        Relative Market Share
                                           (Cash Generation)

'Relative market share is the market share of the firm relative to that of the largest
 competitor in the industry.
Appendix A                                                        363

four quadrants. The key idea is that business units located in each of
these four quadrants will be in fundamentally different cash flow
positions and should be managed differently, which leads to some im-
plications for how the firm should try to build its overall portfolio.
       Cash Cows: Businesses with high relative share in low-growth
       markets will produce healthy cash flow, which can be used to
       fund other, developing businesses.
       Dogs: Businesses with low relative share in low-growth mar-
       kets will often be modest cash users. They will be cash traps
       because of their weak competitive position.
       Stars: Businesses with high relative share in high-growth mar-
       kets usually will require large amounts of cash to sustain
       growth but have a strong market position that will yield high
       reported profits. They may be nearly in cash balance.
       Question Marks (sometimes called wildcats): Businesses with
       low relative share in rapidly growing markets require large
       cash inflows to finance growth and are weak cash generators
       because of their poor competitive position.
     Following the logic of the growth/share portfolio, cash cows
become the financiers of other developing businesses in the firm.
Ideally, cash cows are used to make question marks into stars. Since
doing so requires a great deal of capital to keep up with rapid growth
as well as to build market share, the decision about which question
marks to build into stars becomes a key strategic one. Once a star, a
business eventually becomes a cash cow as its market growth slows.
Question marks that are not chosen for investment should be har-
vested (managed to generate cash) until they become dogs. Dogs
should either be harvested or divested from the portfolio. A firm
should manage its portfolio, according to BCG, so that this desir-
able sequence occurs and so that the portfolio is in cash balance.

    LIMITATIONS

     The applicability of the portfolio model depends on a number
of conditions, some of the most important of which are summarized
below:
       The market has been defined properly to account for impor-
       tant shared experience and other interdependencies with other
364                                                              APPENDIX A

       markets. This is often a subtle problem requiring a great deal
       of analysis.
       The structure of the industry (Chapter 1) and within the in-
       dustry (Chapter 7) are such that relative market share is a
       good proxy for competitive position and relative costs. This is
       often not true.
       Market growth is a good proxy for required cash investment.
       Yet profits (and cash flow) depend on a lot of other things.


      USE IN COMPETITOR ANALYSIS

     In view of these conditions, the growth/share matrix by itself is
not very useful in determining strategy for a particular business. A
great deal of analysis of the sort described in this book is necessary
in order to determine the competitive position of a business unit, and
to translate this competitive position into a concrete strategy.' Once
this front-end analysis has been done, the value added of the port-
folio plot itself is low.
     However, the growth/share matrix can be one component of a
competitor analysis when combined with the other kinds of analysis
described in Chapter 3. A firm can plot, as best it can, the corporate
portfolio for each of its significant competitors, ideally at several
points in time. The portfolio position of the business unit against
which the firm competes will give some indications about the ques-
tions raised in Chapter 3 and about the goals the competitor's parent
may be expecting it to meet and its vulnerability to various types of
strategic moves. For example, a business being harvested may be
vulnerable to attacks on its market share. The comparison of com-
petitors' portfolios over time can identify even more clearly shifts in
the position of a competitor's business unit relative to others in its
company, and it can provide further clues about the strategic man-
date being given to the competitor. If the competitor is known to use
the growth/share portfolio approach in planning, the predictive
power of portfolio analysis is all the greater. However, even if a
competitor does not formally use the technique, the logic of the need
for broad allocation of resources may mean that the portfolio pro-
vides useful clues.
'The advice to "harvest" or "grow into a star" is far from sufficient to guide
 managerial action.
 Appendix A



 The Company Position/Industry Attractiveness
 Screen

      Another technique is the three-by-three matrix variously attrib-
 uted to General Electric, McKinsey and Company, and Shell. One
 representative variation of this technique is shown in Figure A-2.
 The two axes in this approach are the attractiveness of the industry
 and the strength, or competitive position, of the business unit.
 Where a particular business unit falls along these axes is determined
 by an analysis of that particular unit and its industry, using criteria
 like those listed in Figure A-2. Depending on where a unit falls on
 the matrix, its broad strategic mandate is either to invest capital to
 build position, to hold by balancing cash generation and selective
 cash use, or to harvest or divest. Expected shifts in industry attrac-
 tiveness or company position lead to the need to reassess strategy. A
 firm can plot its portfolio of businesses on such a matrix to insure
 that the appropriate allocation of resources is made. The firm can
 also try to balance the portfolio in terms of its mix of developing and

 FIGURE A-2.             Company Positionllndustry Attractiveness Screen
                                                                  Criteria

                                                                   Size
                                                                    Market Growth, Pricing
                                                                    Market Diversity
                                                                   Competitive Stmcture
                                                                   Industry Profitability
                                        Industry Attractiveness
                                                                   Technical Role


                                                                   Environmental




Technological Position
Strengths/Weaknesses
366                                                         APPENDIX A

developed businesses and the internal consistency of cash generation
and cash use.
     The company position/industry attractiveness screen is less pre-
cisely quantifiable than the growth/share approach, requiring inher-
ently subjective judgments about where a particular business unit
should be plotted. It is often criticized for being .more vulnerable to
manipulation. As a result, sometimes quantitative weighting
schemes, using criteria determined to lead to industry attractiveness
or company position in the particular industry, are employed to
make the analysis more "objective." The screening technique re-
flects the assumption that every business unit is different and re-
quires its own analysis of competitive position and industry attrac-
tiveness. As noted above, actually constructing the growth/share
portfolio in practice involves the same type of particularistic analysis
of each business unit. Hence its actual "objectivity" may really not
be far from that of the company position/industry attractiveness
screen.
     Like the growth/share portfolio matrix, the company posi-
tion/industry attractiveness screen offers little but a basic consis-
tency check in formulating competitive strategy for a particular in-
dustry. The real issues involve deciding where to plot the business on
the grid, deciding if position on the grid implies the indicated strat-
egy and working out a detailed strategic concept for building, hold-
ing, or harvesting. These steps require the sort of detailed analysis
described in this book, because the criteria listed in Figure A-2 are
far from sufficient to determine industry attractiveness, company
position, or the appropriate strategy. It is difficult to see, for exam-
ple, how the screen could lead to a recommendation to invest in a de-
clining industry, sound advice in some situations as discussed in
Chapter 12.
     Yet the screen can play a part in competitor analysis, in much
the same way as the growth/share matrix can. It can be used to con-
struct competitors' portfolios at different points in time and to gain
some insight into what strategic mandate a competitor's business
unit may be receiving from its corporate office. Whether to use the
growth/share or company position/industry attractiveness tech-
nique is largely a matter of taste (basically the same analysis is re-
quired to use either of the techniques properly), unless a competitor
is known to use one or the other. In the latter case the best predictive
power is gained from the technique the competitor itself uses. Note
Appendix A                                                       367

that the growth/share technique is inextricably tied with the experi-
ence curve concept. Hence if a competitor is known to be strongly in-
fluenced by the experience curve concept, the growth/share port-
folio approach will probably be a better predictor of its goals and
behavior.
APPENDIX B
How to Conduct an
Industry Analysis



     How should one go about analyzing an industry and competi-
tors? What types of data does one look for and how can they be or-
ganized? Where does one look for these data? This appendix deals
with these questions and some of the other practical problems in-
volved in conducting an industry analysis. There are basically two
types of data about industries: published data and those gathered
from interviews with industry participants and observers (field
data). The bulk of discussion in this appendix will center on identify-
ing the important sources of published and field data, their strengths
and weaknesses, and strategies for approaching them most effective-
ly and in the right sequence.
     A full-blown industry analysis is a massive task, and one that
can consume months if one is starting from scratch. In beginning an
industry analysis there is a tendency to dive in and collect a mass of
detailed information, with little in the way of a general framework
or approach in which to fit this information. This lack of method
leads to frustration at best, and confusion and wasted effort at
worst. Thus before considering specific sources, it is important to
consider an overall strategy for conducting the industry study and
the critical first steps in initiating it.
Appendix 6



Industry Analysis Strategy

      There are two important aspects in developing a strategy for an-
alyzing an industry. The first is to determine just what it is one is
looking for. "Anything about the industry" is much too broad to
serve as an effective guide for research. Although the full list of spe-
cific issues that need to be addressed in an industry analysis depends
on the particular industry under study, it is possible to generalize
about what important information and raw data the researcher
should look for. The chapters in this book have identified the key
structural features of industries, the important forces causing them
to change, and the strategic information necessary about competi-
tors. These are the factors that are the target of an industry analysis,
and the core of the framework that identifies these factors has been
presented in Chapters 1, 3, 7, and 8 and extended in the rest of the
book. However, since these characteristics of structure and competi-
tors are generally not raw data but rather the result of analysis of
raw data, researchers may also find it useful to have a framework
for systematically collecting raw data. A simple but exhaustive set of
areas under which to collect raw data is given in Figure B-1.The re-
searcher who can fully describe each of these areas should be in a po-
sition to develop a comprehensive picture of industry structure and
competitors' profiles.
      With a framework for assembling data, the second major strat-
egy question is how sequentially to develop data in each area. There
are a number of alternatives, ranging from taking one item at a time
to proceeding randomly. As hinted earlier, however, there are im-
portant benefits in getting a general overview of the industry first,
and only then focusing on the specifics. Experience has shown
that a broad understanding can help the researcher more effectively
spot important items of data when studying sources and organize
data more effectively as they are collected.
      A number of steps can be useful in obtaining this overview:
     1. Who is in the industry. It is wise to develop a rough list of in-
dustry participants right away, especially the leading firms. A list of
key competitors is helpful for quickly finding other articles and com-
pany documents (some of the sources discussed later will aid in this
process). An entering wedge for many of these sources is the indus-
370                                                       APPENDIX B

FIGURE 6-1. Raw Data Categories for Industry Analysis
Data Categories                                 Compilation
Product lines                                   By company
Buyers and their behavior                       By year
Complementary products                          By functional area
Substitute products
Growth
    Rate
    Pattern (seasonal, cyclical)
    Determinants
Technology of production and distribution
    Cost structure
    Economies of scale
    Value added
    Logistics
    Labor
Marketing and Selling
    Market segmentation
    Marketing practices
Suppliers
Distribution channels (if indirect)
Innovation
     Types
    Sources
     Rate
     Economies of scale
Competitors-strategy, goals, strengths and
weaknesses, assumptions
Social, political, legal environment
 Macroeconomic environment


try's Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) code, which can be de-
termined from the Census Bureau's Standard Industrial Classifca-
tion Manual. The SIC system classifies industries on a variety of
levels of breadth, with two-digit industries overly broad for most
purposes, five-digit industries often too narrow, and four-digit in-
dustries usually about right.
     2 . Industry studies. If one is lucky, there may be a relatively
comprehensive industry study available or a number of broadly-
based articles. Reading these can be a quick way of developing an
overview. (Sources of industry studies are discussed later.)
Appendix 6                                                          371

     3. Annual reports. If there are any publicly held firms in the in-
dustry, annual reports should be consulted early. A single annual re-
port may contain only modest amounts of disclosure. However, a
quick review of the annual reports for a number of major com-
panies over a ten- or fifteen-year period is an excellent way to begin
to understand the industry. Most aspects of the business will be dis-
cussed at one time or another. The most enlightening part of a n an-
nual report for an overview is often the president's letter. The re-
searcher should look for the rationales given for both good and bad
financial results; these should expose some of the critical success fac-
tors in the industry. It also is important to note what the company
seems to be proud of in its annual report, what it seems to be worried
about, and what key changes have been made. It is also possible to
gain some insights into how companies are organized, the flow of
production, and numerous other factors from reading between the
lines in a series of annual reports from the same company.
     The researcher will generally want to come back to annual re-
ports and other company documents later in the study. The initial
early reading will fail to uncover many nuances that become appar-
ent once the knowledge of the industry and the competitor is more
complete.


    GET INTO THE FIELD EARLY

     If there is any common problem in getting industry analyses un-
derway, it is that researchers tend to spend too much time looking
for published sources and using the library before they begin to tap
field sources. As will be discussed later, published sources have a va-
riety of limitations: timeliness, level of aggregation, depth, and so
on. Although it is important to gain some basic understanding of the
industry to maximize the value of field interviews, the researcher
should not exhaust all published sources before getting into the field.
On the contrary, clinical and library research should proceed simul-
taneously. They tend to feed on each other, especially if the re-
searcher is aggressive in asking every field source to suggest pub-
lished material about the industry. Field sources tend to be more
efficient because they get to the issues, without the wasted time of
reading useless documents. Interviews also sometimes help the re-
searcher identify the issues. This help may come, to some extent, at
the expense of objectivity.
                                                           APPENDIX B


     GET OVER THE HUMP

      Experience shows that the morale of researchers in an industry
study often goes through a U-shaped cycle as the study proceeds. An
initial period of euphoria gives way to confusion and even panic as
the complexity of the industry becomes apparent and mounds of in-
formation accumulate. Sometime later in the study, it all begins to
come together. This pattern appears to be so common as to serve as a
useful thing for researchers to remember.



Published Sources for Analysis of Industry
and Competitors

     The amount of published information available varies widely by
industry. The larger the industry, the older it is, and the slower the
rate of technological change, the better the available published infor-
mation tends to be. Unfortunately for the researcher, many interest-
ing industries do not meet these criteria, and there may be little pub-
lished information available. However, it is always possible to gain
some important information about an industry from published
sources, and these sources should be aggressively pursued. General-
ly, the problem the researcher will face in using published data for
analyzing an economically meaningful industry is that they are too
broad, or too aggregated, to fit the industry. If a researcher starts
searching for data with this reality in mind, the usefulness of broad
data will be better recognized and the tendency to give up too easily
will be avoided.
     Two important principles can greatly facilitate the development
of references to published materials. First, every published source
should be combed tenaciously for references to other sources, both
other published sources and sources for field interviews. Often arti-
cles will cite individuals (industry executives, security analysts, and
so on) who usually do not appear by accident; they tend to be either
well-informed or particularly vocal industry observers, and they
make excellent leads.
     The second principle is to keep a thorough bibliography of
everything that is uncovered. Although it is painful at the time, tak-
ing down the full citation of the source not only saves time in compil-
ing the bibliography at the end of the study but also guards against
Appendix B                                                                     373

wasteful duplication of efforts by members of research teams and
the agony of not being able to remember where some critical piece of
information came from. Summary notes on sources or Xerox copies
of useful ones are also useful. They minimize the need for rereading
and can facilitate communication within a research team.
     Although the types of published sources are potentially nu-
merous, they can be divided into a number of general categories,
which are discussed briefly below.'


     INDUSTRY STUDIES

     Studies that provide a general overview of some industries come
in two general varieties. First are book-length studies of the indus-
try, often (but not exclusively) written by economists. These can
usually best be found in library card catalogs and by cross-checking
references given in other sources. Participants in or observers of a n
industry will almost always know of such industry studies when they
exist, and they should be questioned about them as the study pro-
ceeds.
     The second broad category is the typically shorter, more fo-
cused studies conducted by securities or consulting firms, such as
Frost and Sullivan, Arthur D. Little, Stanford Research Institute,
and all the Wall Street research houses. Sometimes specialized con-
sulting firms collect data on particular industries, such as SMART,
Inc., in the ski industry and IDC in the computer industry. Often ac-
cess to these studies involves a fee. Unfortunately, although there are
a number of published directories of market research studies, there
is no one place where they are all compiled, and the best way to learn
about them is through industry observers or participants.


     TRADE ASSOCIATIONS

     Many industries have trade associations, which serve as clearing
houses for industry data and sometimes publish detailed industry
statistic^.^ Trade associations differ greatly in their willingness to
'L.Daniels (1976) is an excellent general source of business information. There are
 also a number of computerized abstract services for references and articles avail-
 able at major business libraries, which can speed the task of finding articles and
 sorting the useful ones from those that are not so useful.
'There are a number of published directories of trade associations.
374                                                       APPENDIX 6

give data to researchers. Usually, however, an introduction from a
member of the association is helpful in gaining the cooperation of
staff in sending data.
     Whether or not the association is a source of data, members of
the staff are extremely useful in alerting the researcher to any pub-
lished information about the industry that exists, identifying the key
participants and discussing their general impressions of how the in-
dustry functions, its key factors for company success, and important
industry trends. Once contact with a trade association staff member
has been made, this person can in turn be a useful source of referrals
to industry participants and can identify participants who represent
a range of viewpoints.


      TRADE MAGAZINES

     Most industries have one or more trade magazines which cover
industry events on a regular (sometimes even daily) basis. A small in-
dustry may be covered as part of a broader-based trade publication.
Trade journals in customer, distributor, or supplier industries are
often useful sources as well.
     Reading through trade magazines over a long period of time is
an extremely useful way to understand the competitive dynamics and
important changes in an industry, as well as to diagnose its norms
and attitudes.


      BUSINESS PRESS

     A wide variety of business publications cover companies and in-
dustries on an intermittent basis. To obtain references, there are a
number of standard bibliographies, including the Business Periodi-
cals Index, The Wall Street Journal Index, and the F&S Index,
United States (and companions for Europe and International).


      COMPANY DIRECTORIES AND STATISTICAL DATA

     There are a variety of directories of both public and private
U.S. firms, some of which give a limited amount of data. Many di-
rectories list firms by SIC code, and thus they provide a way to build
Appendix B                                                         375

a complete list of industry participants. Comprehensive directories
include Thomas Register of American Manufacturers, the Dun and
Bradstreet Million Dollar Directory and Middle Market Directory,
Standard and Poor's Register of Corporations, Directors and Execu-
tives, and the various Moody's publications. Another broad list of
companies classified by industry is the Newsfront 30,000 Leading
U.S. Corporations, which gives some limited financial information
as well. In addition to these general directories, other potential
sources of broad company lists are financial magazines (Fortune,
Forbes) and buyers guides.
     Dun and Bradstreet compiles credit reports on all companies of
significant size, whether they be public or private. These reports are
not available to any library and provided only to subscribing com-
panies who pay a high fixed cost for the service plus a small fee for
individual reports. Dun and Bradstreet reports are valuable as
sources about private companies, but since data provided by the
companies are not audited, it must be used with caution; many users
have reported errors in the information.
     There are also many statistical sources of such data as advertis-
ing spending and stock market performance.


     COMPANY DOCUMENTS

     Most companies publish a variety of documents about them-
selves, particularly if they are publicly traded. In addition to annual
reports, SEC form 10-K's, proxy statements, prospectuses, and
other government filings can be useful. Also useful are speeches or
testimony by firm executives, press releases, product literature, man-
uals, published company histories, transcripts of annual meetings,
want ads, patents, and even advertising.


    MAJOR GOVERNMENT SOURCES

     The Internal Revenue Service provides in the IRS Corporation
Source Book of Statistics of Income extensive annual financial in-
formation on industries (by size of organizations within the indus-
try) based on corporate tax returns. A less detailed, printed version
of the data is in the IRS's Statistics of Income. The main drawback
376                                                           APPENDIX B

 of this source is that the financial data for an entire company are al-
 located to that company's principle industry, thereby introducing
 biases in industries in which many participants are highly diversified.
 However, the IRS data are available annually back to the 1940s, and
 it is the only source that gives financial data covering all firms in the
 industry.
        Another source of government statistics is the Bureau of the
 Census. The most frequently used volumes are Census of Manufac-
 turers, Census of Retail Trade, and Census of the Mineral
Industries, which are available quite far back in time. As with the
 IRS data, the census does not refer to specific companies but rather
 breaks down statistics by SIC code. Census material also has consid-
erable regional data for industries. Unlike IRS data, census data are
 based on aggregates of data from establishments within corpora-
 tions, such as plant sites and warehouses, rather than corporations
 as a whole. Therefore, the data are not biased by company diversifi-
cation. One feature of the Census of Manufacturers that can be par-
 ticularly useful is the special report, Concentration Ratios in Manu-
facturing Industry. This section gives the percentages of industry
sales of the largest four, eight, twenty, and fifty firms in the industry
 for each SIC four-digit manufacturing industry in the economy. An-
other useful government source for price level changes in industries
 is the Bureau of Labor Statistics, Wholesale Price Index.
        Leads on further government information can be obtained
 through the various indexes of government publications, as well as
 by contacting the U.S. Department of Commerce and the libraries of
other government agencies. Other government sources include regu-
 latory agency filings, congressional hearings, and patent office sta-
 tistics.


      OTHER SOURCES

     Some other potentially fruitful published sources include the
following:
       antitrust records;
       local newspapers in which a competitor's facilities or head-
       quarters are located;
       local tax records.
Appendix B



Gathering Field Data for Industry Analysis

      In gathering field data it is important to have a framework for
identifying possible sources, determining what their attitude toward
cooperation with the research is likely to be, and developing an ap-
proach to them. Figure B-2 gives a schematic diagram of the most
important sources of field data, which are participants in the industry
itself, firms and individuals in adjacent businesses to the industry
(suppliers, distributors, customers), service organizations that have
contact with the industry (including trade associations), and industry
observers (including the financial community, regulators, etc.).
Each of these sources has somewhat differing characteristics, which
are useful to identify explicitly.


    CHARACTERISTICS OF FIELD SOURCES

      Industry competitors will perhaps be the most uncertain about
cooperating with researchers, because the data they release have a
real potential of causing them economic harm. Approaching sources
in the industry requires the greatest degree of care (some guidelines
will be discussed later). Sometimes they will not cooperate at all.
     The next most sensitive sources are service organizations, such
as consultants, auditors, bankers, and trade association personnel,
who operate under a tradition of confidentiality about individual
clients, though usually not about general industry background infor-
mation. Most of the other sources are not threatened directly by in-
dustry research, and in fact they often perceive it as a help. The most
perceptive outside observers of the industry are often suppliers' or
customers' executives who have taken an active interest in the whole
range of industry participants over a long period of time. Retailers
and wholesalers are often excellent sources as well.
     The researcher should attempt to speak with individuals in all of
the major groups since each of them can supply important data and
provide useful cross-checks. Because of their differing perspectives,
the researcher should not be surprised if they make conflicting and
even directly contradictory statements. One of the arts of interview-
ing is cross-checking and verifying data from different sources.
378                                                                                        APPENDIX B

FIGURE 8-2 Sources of Field Data for Industry Analysis


                                    I   Industry Observers   I
Standard setting organizations                                   State government
  (e.g., underwriters laboratory)
                                                                 Federal government
Unions
                                                                 International organizations
Press, particularly editors of                                     (e.g., OECD, United Nations)
  trade press and local press
  where competitors' facilities                                  Watchdog groups
  or headquarters are located                                     (e.g., Consumer's Union,
                                                                  Ralph Nader)
Local organizations (i.e.,
  Chamber of Commerce) where                                     Financial community
  facilities or headquarters                                       (securities analysts)
  are located
                                                                 Agencies involved in regulation,
                                                                 industry promotion, financing,
                                                                 and so on




                     Suppliers                                   Distributors               Customers




 Interview Sources about Competitors
          Inside the Company                     I           I   Service Organizations
                                                                                              I
 Market research staff                                           Trade associations

 Sales force                                                     Investment banks

 Service organizations                                           Consultants

 Former employees of competitors,                                Auditors
   observers, or service organizations
                                                                 Commercial banks
 Engineering staff
                                                                 Advertising agencies
 Purchasing department-in contact
   with suppliers who call on competitors

 R&D department-generally follows technical
  developments and scientific conferences
  and publications
Appendix B                                                           379

     The researcher can make the initial field contact at any point
shown in Figure B-2. Initially, to gather background, it is best to
make contact with someone who is knowledgeable about the indus-
try but who does not have a competitive or direct economic stake in
it. Such interested third parties are usually more open and provide
the best way of gaining an unbiased overview of the industry and of
the key actors involved, which is important early in the research.
When the researcher is in a position to ask more perceptive and dis-
criminating questions, direct industry participants can be tackled.
However, to maximize the chances of success in any interview, it is
important to have a personal introduction, no matter how indirect.
This consideration may dictate the choice of where to begin. Field re-
search always involves an element of opportunism, and following a
method of analysis should not deter the researcher from pursuing
good leads.
     It is important to remember that many participants in an indus-
try or observers of it know each other personally. Industries are not
faceless; they are composed of people. Thus one source will lead to
another if the researcher is adept at his task. Particularly receptive
subjects for field interviews are often individuals who have been
quoted in articles. Another good method to develop interviews is to
attend industry conventions to meet people informally and generate
contacts.


     FIELD INTERVIEWS

     Effective field interviewing is a time-consuming and subtle
process, but one that will amass the bulk of critical information for
many industry studies. Although each interviewer will have his or
her own style, a few simple points may be useful.

     Contacts. It is generally most productive to make contacts
with potential sources by telephone, rather than by letter, or by a tel-
ephone call following up a letter. People are apt to put a letter aside
and avoid a decision about whether to cooperate. A telephone call
forces the issue, and people are more likely to cooperate with an ar-
ticulate and well-informed verbal request than they are with a letter.

     Lead Time. Researchers should begin to arrange interviews as
early as possible, since lead times may be long and travel schedules
380                                                        APPENDIX B

difficult to coordinate; it may take months to arrange and complete
them. Although at least a week is necessary lead time for most inter-
views, often the researcher can get an interview on very short notice
as peoples' schedules change. It is desirable to have identified a num-
ber of alternative sources for any interview trip; if time becomes
available they just might be willing to meet on short notice.

     Quid Pro Quo. When arranging a n interview, one should have
something to offer the interviewee in return for his or her time. This
can range from a n offer to discuss (selectively of course) some of the
researcher's observations based on the study, to thoughtful feedback
on the interviewees' comments, to summaries of results or extracts
of the study itself when feasible.

      Affiliation. An interviewer must be prepared to give his or her
affiliation and make some statement about the identity or (at least)
the nature of his or her client if the study is being conducted for an-
other organization. There is a moral obligation to alert a n inter-
viewee if information may be used to his or her detriment. If the
identity of the interviewer's firm or client cannot be disclosed, some
general statement must be made regarding the economic stake of the
firm or client in the business being studied. Otherwise interviewees
generally will not (and should not) grant an interview. Failure to dis-
close the identity of the firm or client will often limit (though not
necessarily destroy) the usefulness of the interview.

     Perseverance. No matter how skillful the interviewer, schedul-
ing interviews is invariably a frustrating process; many times a n in-
terview is declined or the interviewee is openly unenthusiastic about
it. This is in the nature of the problem and must not deter the inter-
viewer. Often an interviewee is much more enthusiastic once a meet-
ing has commenced and the relationship between interviewer and in-
terviewee has become more personal.

     Credibility. Interviewers greatly build credibility in arranging
interviews and conducting them by having some knowledge of the
business. This knowledge should be displayed early both in initial
contacts and in interviews themselves. It makes the interview more
interesting and potentially useful for the subject.

    Teamwork. Interviewing is a tiring job and should ideally be
done in teams of two if resources permit. While one member asks a
Appendix 19                                                           381

question, the other can be taking notes and thinking up the next
round of questions. It also allows one interviewer to maintain eye
contact while the other takes notes. Teamwork also allows for a de-
briefing session immediately after the interview or at the end of the
day, which is extremely useful in reviewing and clarifying notes,
checking for consistent impressions, analyzing the interview, and
synthesizing findings. Often much creative work in industry research
is done in such sessions. A solo interviewer should leave time for
such activity as well.

     Questions. Gathering accurate data depends on asking un-
biased questions, which d o not prejudge or limit the answer nor ex-
pose the interviewer's own leanings. The interviewer must also be
sensitive not to signal with his or her behavior, tone of voice, or ex-
pression what the "desired" answer is. Most people like to be coop-
erative and agreeable, and such signaling may bias the answer.

     Notes. In addition to taking notes, the researcher can benefit
from writing down observations about the interview itself. What
publications does the individual use? What books are on the shelves?
How are the offices decorated? Are they plush or sparse? Does the
interviewee have any sample products in the office? This type of in-
formation often provides useful clues in interpreting the verbal data
that result from the interview and also provides leads for additional
sources.

      Relationships. It is important to recognize that the subject is
human, has never met the researcher before, has his or her own set
of personal characteristics, and may be quite uncertain about what
to say or not say. The style and vocabulary of the subject, his or her
posture and attitude, body language, and so on give important clues
and should be diagnosed quickly. A good interviewer is usually
adept at quickly building a relationship with the subject. Making a n
effort to adapt to the style of the interviewee, to lower the level of
uncertainty, and to make the interaction personal rather than keep-
ing it on an abstract business level will pay off in the quality and can-
dor of the information received.

     Formal Versus Informal. Much interesting information often
comes after the formal interview is over. For example, if the re-
                                                                            '
searcher can get a plant tour, the interviewee may become much
more open as the setting becomes removed from the more formal
382                                                         APPENDIX B

setting of the office. The researcher should attempt to engineer inter-
views so that the inherent formality of the situation is overcome.
This may be done by meeting on neutral ground, getting a tour, hav-
ing lunch, or discovering and discussing other topics of common in-
terest besides the industry in question.

     Sensitive Data. It will generally be most productive to start an
interview with nonthreatening general questions rather than asking
for specific numbers or other potentially sensitive data. In situations
in which concern over sensitive data may be likely, it is usually best
to state explicitly at the beginning of an interview that the researcher
is not asking for proprietary data but rather impressions about the
industry. Often individuals will be willing to provide data in the
form of ranges, "ball park" figures, or "round numbers" that can
be extremely useful to the the interviewer. Questions should be struc-
tured as follows: "Is the number of salespersons you have closer to
100 or 500?"

     Pursuing Leads. A researcher should always devote some time
in interviews to asking questions such as the following: Whom else
should we speak to? What publications should we be familiar with?
Are there any conventions going on that might be useful to attend?
(A large number of industries have conventions taking place in Janu-
ary and February.) Are there any books that might be enlightening?
The way to maximize the use of interviews is to gain further leads
from each one. If an interviewee is willing to provide a personal ref-
erence to another individual, the offer should always be taken. It
will greatly facilitate the arrangement of further interviews.

     Phone Interviews. Phone interviews can be quite productive
relatively late in a study when questions can be highly focused.
Phone interviews work best with suppliers, customers, distributors,
and other third-party sources.
Bibliography




ABELL,D. F., A N D H AMMOND, J. S. Strategic Market Planning: Problems
     and Analytical Approaches. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall,
     1979.
ABERNATHY, W. J., A N D WAYNE, K. "The Limits of the Learning Curve,"
     Harvard Business Review, September/October 1974.
A BERNATHY, W. J. The Productivity Dilemma: Roadblock to Innovation in
     the Automobile Industry. Baltimore, Md.: Johns Hopkins Press, 1978.
ANDREWS,    K. R. The Concept of Corporate Strategy. New York: Dow
     Jones-Irwin, 1971.
ANSOFF,  H. I. "Checklist for Competitive and Competence Profiles." Cor-
     porate Strategy, pp. 98-99. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1965.
BROCK, G. The U.S. Computer Industry. Cambridge, Mass.: Ballinger
     Press, 1975.
BUCHELE, R. "HOW to Evaluate a Firm." California Management Review,
     Fall 1962, pp. 5-16.
BUFFA, E. S. Modern Production Management. 4th ed. New York: Wiley,
    1973.
BUZZELL,  R. D. "Competitive Behavior and Product Life Cycles." In New
    Ideas for Successful Marketing, edited by John Wright and J. L. Gold-
    stucker, pp. 46-68. Chicago: American Marketing Association, 1966.
BUZZELL,  R. D., GALE, B. T., A N D SULTAN, R. G. M. "Market Share-A Key
                                                                      383
384                                                         BIBLIOGRAPHY

     to Profitability." Harvard Business Review, January-February 1975,
     pp. 97-106. .
                 ,


 BUZZELL,  R. D., NOURSE, R. M., MATTHEWS,  J. B., J R ., A N D LEVITT,
                                                                     T. Mar-
     keting: A Contemporary Analysis. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1972.
 CANNON, J. T. Business Strategy and Policy. New York: Harcourt, Brace
     and World, 1968.
C ATRY, B., A N D C HEVALIER, M. "Market Share Strategy and the Product
     Life Cycle." Journal of Marketing, Vol. 38, October 1974, pp. 29-34.
CHRISTENSEN, C. R., ANDREWS, K. R., A N D BOWER, J. L. Business Policy:
     Text and Cases. Homewood, Ill.: Richard D. Irwin, 1973.
CLIFFORD, D. K., J R. "Leverage in the Product Life Cycle." Dun's Review,
     May 1965.
COREY, R. Industrial Marketing. 2nd ed. Englewood Cliffs, N.J..: Prentice-
     Hall, 1976.
Cox, W. E., J R . "Product Life Cycles as Marketing Models." Journal of
     Business, October 1967, pp. 375-384.
DANIELS, L. Business Information Sources. Berkeley: University of Califor-
     nia Press, 1976.
DAY, G. S. "Diagnosing the Product Portfolio." Journal of Marketing,
     April 1977, pp. 29-38.
 D'CRUZ,J. "Quasi-Integration in Raw Material Markets." DBA Disserta-
     tion, Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, 1979.
DEAN, J. "Pricing Policies for New Products." Harvard Business Review,
     Vol. 28, No. 6, November 1950.
DEUTSCH, M. "The Effect of Motivational Orientation Upon Threat and
    Suspicion. " Human Relations, 1960, pp. 123-139.
Doz, Y. L. Government Control and Multinational Strategic Management.
     New York: Praeger, 1979.
-.       "Strategic Management in Multinational Companies." Sloan Man-
    agement Review, in press, 1980.
FORBUS,  J. L., AND MEHTA, N.T. "Economic Value to the Customer." Staff
     paper, McKinsey and Company, February 1979.
FORRESTER, J. W. "Advertising: A Problem in Industrial Dynamics." Har-
     vard Business Review, Vol. 37, No. 2, March/April 1959, pp. 100-110.
FOURAKER,   L. F., A N D SIEGEL,
                               S. Bargaining and Group Decision Making:
    Experiments in Bilateral Monopoly. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1960.
F RUHAN , W. E., J R . The Fight for Competitive Advantage. Cambridge,
     Mass.: Division of Research, Harvard Graduate School of Business
     Administration, 1972.
F i n a n c i a l Strategy. Homewood, Ill.: Richard D. Irwin, 1979.
Bibliography                                                            385

 GILMOUR, S. C. "The Divestment Decision Process." DBA Dissertation,
     Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, 1973.
 HARRIGAN, K. R. "Strategies for Declining Industries." DBA Dissertation,
     Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, 1979.
 H UNT, M. S. "Competition in the Major Home Appliance Industry."
     Ph.D. Dissertation, Harvard University, 1972.
 KNICKERBOCKER,   F. T. Oligopolistic Reaction and Multinational Enterprise.
     Cambridge, Mass.: Division of Research, Harvard Graduate School of
     Business Administration, 1973.
 KOTLER, P. Marketing Management. 2nd ed. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Pren-
     tice-Hall, 1972.
 LEVITT,  T. "Exploit the Product Life Cycle." Harvard Business Review,
     November/December 1965, pp. 81-94.
        . "The Augmented Product Concept." In The ~ a r k e t i nMode: ~
     Pathways to Corporate Growth. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1969.
 MEHTA, N. T. "Policy Formulation in a Declining Industry: The Case of the
     Canadian Dissolving Pulp Industry." DBA Dissertation, Harvard
     Graduate School of Business Administration, 1978.
 MOORE, F. G., Production Management. 6th ed. Homewood, Ill.: Richard
     D. Irwin, 1973.
 NEWMAN,    H. H. "Strategic Groups and the Structure-Performance Rela-
     tionship." Review of Economics and Statistics, Vol. LX, August 1978,
     pp. 417-427.
 NEWMAN,    W. H., A N D LOGAN, J. P., Strategy, Policy and Central Manage-
     ment. Chapter 2. Cincinnati, Ohio: South Western Publishing, 1971.
 PATTON,   ARCH. "Stretch Your Product's Earning Years." Management Re-
     view, Vol. XLVII, No. 6, June 1959.
 POLLI,R., A N D C OOK, V. "Validity of the Product Life Cycle." Journal of
     Business, October 1969, pp. 385-400.
PORTER, M. E. Interbrand Choice, Strategy and Bilateral Market Power.
     Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1976a.
        . "Strategy Under Conditions of Adversity.'' Discussion paper, Har-
     vard Graduate School of Business Administration, 1976b.
        . "Please Note Location of Nearest Exit: Exit Barriers and Plan-
     ning." California Management Review, Vol. XIX, Winter 1976c,
     pp. 21-33.
.         "The Structure Within Industries and Companies' Performance."
     Review of Economics and Statistics, LXI, May 1979, pp. 214-227.
P ORTER, M. E., AND SPENCE, M. "Capacity Expansion in a Growing Oligop-
     oly: The Case of Corn Wet Milling," Discussion paper, Harvard Grad-
     uate School of Business Administration, 1978.
386                                                        BIBLIOGRAPHY
QUAIN,MITCHELL. Lift-Truck Industry: Near Term Outlook. New York:
    Wertheim & Company, June 22,1977.
ROTHSCHILD, W. E. Putting It All Together. New York: AMACOM, 1979.
SALTER, M., A N D W EINHOLD, W. Diversification Through Acquisition.
    New York: Free Press, 1979.
SCHELLING,  T. The Strategy of Conflict. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard Uni-
    versity Press, 1960.
SCHOEFFLER, S., BUZZELL,  R. D., HEANY,   D. F. "Impact of Strategic Plan-
    ning on Profit Performance." Harvard Business Review, March/April
    1974, pp. 137-145.
SKINNER, W. "The Focused Factory." Harvard Business Review, May/June
    1974, pp. 113-121.
SMALLWOOD, J. E. "The Product Life Cycle: A Key to Strategic Market
    Planning." MSU Business Topics, Vol. 21, No. 1, Winter 1973,
    pp. 29-36.
SPENCE, A. M. "Entry, Capacity, Investment and Oligopolistic Pricing."
    Bell Journal of Economics, Vol. 8, Autumn 1977, pp. 534-544.
STAUDT, T. A., T AYLOR, D., A N D BOWERSOX, D. A Managerial Introduction
    to Marketing, 3rd ed. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, 1976.
SULTAN, R. Pricing in the Electrical Oligopoly. Vols. I and II. Cambridge,
    Mass.: Division of Research, Harvard Graduate School of Business
    Administration, 1974.
VERNON, R. "International Investment and International Trade in the Prod-
    uct Cycle." Quarterly Journal of Economics, Vol. LXXX, May 1966,
    pp. 190-207.
       . "The Waning Power of the Product Cycle Hypothesis." Discus-
    sion paper, Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration,
    May 1979.
WELLS, L. T., J R . "International Trade: The Product Life Cycle Ap-
    proach." In The Product Life Cycle in International Trade, edited by
    L. T. Wells, Jr. Cambridge, Mass.: Division of Research, Harvard
    Graduate School of Business Administration, 1972.



Case Studies

Note on the Watch Industries in Switzerland, Japan and the United States.
    Intercollegiate Case Clearinghouse, 9-373-090.
Prelude Corporation. Intercollegiate Case Clearinghouse, 4-373-052, 1968.
Timex (A). Intercollegiate Case Clearinghouse, 6-373-080.
Bibliography


Periodicals

Business Week, August 13, 1979; June 1 1 , 1979; November 27, 1978; Octo-
    ber 9 , 1978; July 17, 1978; August 1 5 , 1977; February 28, 1977; Decem-
    ber 13, 1976, November 18, 1976.
Dun's, February 1977.
Forbes, December 25, 1978; September 18, 1978; July 15, 1977; November
    15, 1977.
New York Times, February 1 1 , 1979.
Index


Abell, D., 361n.                                 176, 218, 276, 288, 289, 293, 295, 297,
Abernathy, W.J., 16n., 217n., 243n.              320
Accounting procedures, 52                    Automotive parts industry, 349
Acetylene industry, 23, 29, 156, 256, 259,   Automotive repair shops, 349
     260-262                                 Automotive tune-up centers, 223
Acquisitions, 30, 350-356; see also Entry
  effect o n rivalry, 21                     Baby food industry, 58-59
  forecasting, 50                            Baby products industry, 9, 165, 244
  fragmented industries, 204                 Backpack industry, 166
Advertising, 9-10                            Baldor, Inc., 43
  and the product life cycle, 159-161        Bank cash dispenser industry, 162
  and substitutes, 23-24                     Baxter Travenol Laboratories, 104-105
Aerosol packaging industry, 21, 31, 170,     Beauty care industry, 198
     172-173, 232, 309                       Beef cattle industry, 201
Agricultural cooperatives, 140               Berkey Photo, Inc., 77
Agricultural products industry, 191          Bhadkamkar, N., 275n.
Air cargo, 8                                 Bic-Pen Corporation, 52, 54, 98
Aircraft industry, 12, 280, 292, 295         Bicycle industry, 158, 166, 224
Air filter industry, 206                     Biological separation industry, 215
Airline industry, 33 1                       Black and Decker, 13, 36
Allis-Chalmers, 44, 295                      Blue jean industry, 166
Aluminum extrusion industry, 207             Board of directors, 53
Aluminum fabricating industry, 198           Bosch, R., 20
Aluminum industry, 335                       Boston Consulting Group, 275n., 361
American Hospital Supply Corporation,        Bottled water industry, 215, 224
     104-105                                 Bowersox, 161n.
American Motors Corporation, 98, 127, 150    Bowmar, Inc., 78
Ammonium fertilizer industry, 19, 130, 140   Brewing industry, 7, 9, 21, 60, 146, 156,
Ancell, N., 20911.                                244
Announcements, 76-81                         Briggs and Stratton, 36
Ansoff, H.I., 63n.                           British Leyland, 43
Antitrust policy, 53, 56, 85-86              Brock, G., 77
Appliance industry, 129-130, 244             Brown-Boveri, 295
Aquaculture industry, 220                    Buchele, R., 63n.
Archer-Daniels-Midland, 342                  Buffa, E.S., 301
Arthur D. Little, Inc., 373                  Building supply industry, 198
Asset disposition, 265-266                   Bulova Watch Company, 174n.
Automatic drip coffee maker industry, 221    Burger King, 252
Automobile industry, 15, 16n., 25, 37, 43,   Burroughs Corporation, 126
     45, 98, 127, 143, 150, 162, 163, 168,   Business cycle, 168
Business forms industry, 198                   Competitive reaction, 50-51, 67-71, 88- 107,
Buyers                                               130, 154-155, 341-344, 346-347
  bargaining power, 24-27, 113-114             Competitor analysis
  behavior in-declining industries, 257-258,      blind spots, 59, 60
     261-262                                      competitor assumptions, 48-49, 58-63,
  effect on industry fragmentation, 197             92-93, 96, 238, 247
  in emerging industries, 219                     competitor capabilities, 48-49, 63-67,
  growth potential, 110-1 13                        91-92, 111, 149-150
  learning, 170- 17 1                            competitor goals, 48-49, 50-58, 92,
  in mature industries, 238-239                     95-100
  price sensitivity, 114-1 18                    in emerging industries, 233-234
  repeat buyers, 167-168                         in global industries, 293-294
  strategy toward, 108-122                        market signals, 75-87
Buyer segments, 169-170                          in mature industries, 238
Buyer selection 26-27, 108-122, 244-245           mixed motives, 70-71
Buzzell, R.D., 145n., 161n.                      organizational structure, 52
                                                  picking the battleground, 70
Calculator industry, 17, 315                      theory, 47-74
Campbell Soup Company, 354                        use of portfolio models, 361-367
Campground industry, 203                       competitor intelligence, 48, 71-74
Candy industry, 165, 166                       Competitor intelligence systems. 71-74
Cannon, J.T., 32011.                           ~ o m ~ l e m e n t products,
                                                                   ar~       167 .
Canteen Corporation, 243                       Computer Automation, Inc., 218
Capacity expansion                             computer industry, 7 , 77, 126, 134, 275,
  determinants, 78, 239, 324-338                    280, 305, 317
  effect on rivalry, 19                        Computer memories, 78-79
Capital budgeting, 325-326, 341                Computer service bureau industry, 179, 204
Capital markets, 10, 23, 78, 223, 262, 333,    Computer software, 192
     350-356                                   Conducting industry analyses, 368-382
Cargill, Inc., 342                             Construction equipment industry, 37, 38,
Carpet industry, 146, 148                           84. 118. 143. 316. 348
J.1. Case, Inc., 62                            consuhing hdusiry, 116 , 198
Cash cow, 363                                  Consumer electronics industry. 45-46
Cash trap, 247                                 Consumer finance industry, 244
Castle & Cooke, 134                            Consumer needs, 165-166
Caterpillar Tractor, 37, 38, 84, 202           Consumer packaged food industry, 62, 275
Catry, B., 161n.                               Control Data Corporation, 126n., 134
Cattle feedlots, 315                           Control systems, 40-41, 52, 250-251
CBS, Inc., 203                                 Convenience store industry, 244
Cement industry, 197                           Conventional wisdom, 60, 219, 347
Century 21, Inc., 203                          Cook, P., 158n.
Cessna, 175-176                                Copier industry, 10, 317
Chain saw industry, 153, 224                   Corey, R., 117n.
Charles River Breeding Laboratories, 201       Corning Glass Works, 231
Charmin Paper Company, 21, 356                 Corn milling industry, 23, 24, 330, 331,
Chemical industry, 24, 140, 197, 282                342, 347
Chevalier, M., 161n.                           Corporate culture, 41, 42
Chloride industry, 19                          Cosmetics industry, 4 , 9 , 127
Chrysier Corporation, 25, 43, 127, 295         Cost curves, 245
Cigarette industry, 310                        Cost leadership, 35-37, 40, 45, 148
Cigar industry, 257, 259, 266                  Cost of servicing buyers, 110-1 11, 118
Clark Equipment, 42                            Cox, W.E., Jr., 161n.
Clifford, D., 161n.                            CPC International, 275, 347
Clinical laboratory industry, 181              Creative industries, 191, 198
Clothing industry, 148, 168                    Cross-parry, 84-85
Coal gasification industry, 219, 222, 228      Cross subsidization, 242
Coalitions, 295                                Crown Cork and Seal, Inc., 37, 127, 246,
Coca-Cola Company, 51, 85, 145                      252
Coffee industry, 7 0 , 84, 85                  Curtis Publishing Company, 310
Coleman Company, 37                            Cutlery industry, 148
Commitment, 89, 99, 100-105
Competitive forces, 3-33, 126-153, 157         Daniels, L., 373n.
Competitive moves, 88-107                      Data collection, xv
Data General Inc., 218                          Electronic alarm systems. 24
Data sources, 368-382                           Electronic calculator industry, 136-137,
Data transmission industry, 223, 349                  169, 178, 222, 232, 237
Day, G.S.,361n.                                 Electronic component distribution industry,
D'Cruz, J., 321n.                                     109, 162, 192, 196, 208
Dean Foods, 246                                 Embryonic industries: see Emerging indus-
DeCastro, E., 218                                     tries
Declining industries, 159-161, 254-274          Emerging industries, 158-161, 215-236
John Deere, 84, 143, 348                        Emerson Electric, 13, 36, 43
Defense industry, 292                           Entry
Defensive strategy, 98-105                         and capacity expansion, 332
Del Monte Company, 355                             choice of industries to enter, 235-236
Demographics, 164-165, 258                         into emerging industries, 220-221,
De Novo entrants, 220-221                            232-233
Department stores, 137                            encouraging entry, 233-234
Design and Manufacturing Corporation,              of foreign firms, 182n.
     130                                           into fragmented industries, 205-206
Deutsch, M., 102n.                                and industry evolution, 163, 175-176,
Developing countries, 277, 297-298                   182- 183
Diffusion of knowledge, 172-174                   seauential entrv. 356-357
Digital Equipment Corporation, 109, 218           signaling and, 82
Dillon Companies, 207                             theory, 6-7. 99. 132-136, 171. 339-357
Discount retailing, 61                            timing, 142, 1 4
Diseconomies of scale, 197-199, 202-203         Entry barriers; see also Mobility barriers
Dishwasher industry, 238                          access to distribution channels, 10-1 1
Disposable lighters, 15                           capital requirements, 9-10
Distribution industries, 191                      cost disadvantages, 11-13
Diversification; see also Entry                   economies of scale, 7-9, 15-16
  acquisition, 7                                  in emerging industries, 220-221
  impact of industry structure on, 5, 15-16,      and entry, 340-350
     31-32, 55, 135, 263, 264                     excess capacity, 8n.
  shared operations or functions, 8, 13           experience curve, 11-13, 15-17
Divestment: see Exit barriers                     in fragmented industries, 196
Dog business, 363                                 and global competition, 297
Doz, Y., 292, 293n.                               government policy, 13
Dr. Pepper Company, 85                           and industry maturity, 241
Drug industry, 9 , 148                            product differentiation, 9
Dry cleaning industry, 200                       switching costs, 10
Du Pont Corporation, 36, 66                       theory, 7-17, 30-31, 142-144
Durable goods, 168                                vertical integration, 9, 308-310
                                               Entry deterring price, 14
Early markets, 225-229                         Erickson, L.M., 290
Eaton Corporation, 44                          Estee Lauder, 127
Economic value to the customer, 121n.          Ethan Allen, Inc., 208-209
Economies of scale                             Ethylene glycol industry, 332
  and capacity expansion, 329                  Ethylene industry, 257
  in emerging industries. 218                  Evolutionary processes, 162- 184
  in fragmented industries, 196, 201-202,      Excess capacity, 249
     203, 204                                  Exchange rates, 176-177
  in global industries, 278-281                Exclusive dealers, I I
  joint costs, 8-9                             Exit, 182-183
  and preemption, 336-337                      Exit barriers
  and strategic groups, 132-134, 143, 146        approaches to reducing, 268
  theory, 7-9, 12                                and capacity expansion, 330
  vertical integration, 9, 302                   and entry barriers, 22-23
Economies of vertical integration, 302-305       in global industries, 292
Educational testing industry, 166                and industry concentration, 186
Electrical controls industry, 115                and industry fragmentation, 199
Electrical products industry, 295                and rivalry, 20-21
Electric coffee percolator industry, 221         theory, 66, 183, 225, 259-265, 311
Electric motor industry, 8                     Expectations, 324-327, 332
Electric ranges, 37                            Experience curve
Electric utilities, 224                          and capacity expansion, 329
                                                                                  INDEX

  in emerging industries, 217-218              Gallo Wine Company, 183n.
  in fragmented industries, 196, 201-202       Gambling equipment industry, 166
  in global industries, 279                    Game theory, 88-107
  and industry evolution, 174-175              Garbage collection industry, 192
  and preemption, 336-337                      General Electric Company, 7, 43, 105, 121,
  theory, 11-13, 15-17                              129, 238, 270, 295, 362, 365
Extended rivalry, 6                            General Instrument Corporation, 221
Externalities, 230                             General management and strategy, 42,
                                                    55-56, 61-63, 252-253
Fabricated aluminum products industry, 192     General Mills, lnc., 264
Factor costs, 288                              General Motors Corporation, 25, 43, 45,
Farm equipment industry, 62, 84, 143, 156,          126-127, 143, 168, 211, 289, 348
     176, 246                                  Generic strategies
Fashion clothing industry, 284                   definition, 34-46, 54, 120, 206, 208, 245
Fastener industry, 39, 116                       in mature industries, 241
Fast foad industry, 203, 252                     and strategic groups, 152
Federated Department Stores, 61                Genstar Ltd., 316
                           .
Fertilizer industry, 282, 331                  Georgia-Pacific, 342
Fiat, 43                                       Gerber Products Company, 58, 244
Fiberglass insulation industry, 23             Gillette, IS, 98, 100
Fiber optics industry, 200, 215, 217, 231      Gilmour, S.C., 264n.
Fibers industry, 297                           Global industries, 275-298
Fieldcrest Mills, 37                           Gould, Inc., 43, 295, 354
Field interviewing, 379-382                    Government policy
Fighting brand, 85, 99                           and capacity expansion, 334
Fire engine industry, 199                        in competitor analysis, 53
Firm capabilities: see Competitor analysis       and demand, 166
Firm profitability, 126-15 1                     and divestment, 264-265
Firm size, 175-176                               in emerging industries, 223-224
Fishing industry, 199                            as an entry barrier, 11
Fixed costs, 18, 24, 211, 260-261, 343           as an exit barrier, 21
Fleetwood, Inc., 207                             and global industries, 286, 288
Flour industry, 264                              impact on competition, 28-29
Fluid milk industry, 197, 246                    and industry evolution, 181-182
Focal points, 95, 105-106                        affect on industry fragmentation, 200
Focus strategies, 38-40; see also Generic        affect on new product adoption, 229
     strategies                                  subsidy, 219-220
Folgers Coffee, 70, 84                           and substitutes, 167n.
Food and Drug Administration, 105              Grain mill products industry, 148
Food wholesaling industry, 40                  Growth/share matrix, 362-364
Footwear industry, 148                         Gulf Oil Corporation, 62
Forbus, J.L., 121n., 224n.                     Gypsum industry, 332, 342
Ford Motor Company, 25, 45, 127, 143,
     168                                       Hammond, J., 361n.
Forecasting, 157-188, 234-235, 273             Hanes Corporation, 54, 151
Foreclosure, 308-309                           Harley-Davidson, 46
Foreign competitors, 18, 19; see also Global   Harnischfeger Company, 36-37
     industries                                Harrigan, K.R., 254n.
Foreign direct investment, 277                 Harvard Business School, 225n.
Forest products industry, 28                   Harvest strategy;56, 254, 255, 267-274,
Forest Service, U.S., 28                           363, 366
Forrester, J.W., 161n.                         Heavy construction industry, 281, 292
Fort Howard Paper, 39                          Heilman Brewing Company, 244
Fouraker, L.F., 75n.                           Hertz Corporation, 242, 248
Fractional horsepower electric motor indus-    Heublein, Inc., 183
     try, 43                                   Hewlett-Packard, 17, 136-137
Fragmented industries, 191-214                 High speed steel industry, 278
Franklin Electric Co., 43                      H.K. Porter Paint, 39
Free-market return, 5-6                        Hobart Corporation, 238
Freight forwarding industry, 13                Honda, 289
Frost and Sullivan, 373                        Honeywell, Inc., 126n., 134, 218
Fruhan, W.E., Jr., 223n., 331n.                Hosiery industry, 151
Functional strategy, xiii, xvi-xvii            Hospital management industry, 181, 230
Furniture industry, 208-209                    Hospital supply industry, 104-105
Index

Host governments, 292-293                      Inventory costs. 197
Hot buttons, 68                                Investment banking industry, 9, 116
Hotel industry, 330                            ITE, Inc., 354
Household Finance Corporation, 62, 244
Household paper products industry, 21          Jenn-Air, 37
Hout, T.,275n.                                 J.I. Case, Inc., 62
Hudson Motor Car Company, 218                  Joint ventures, 340n.
Hunt, M., 138n.
Hyster, 37, 42, 44                             Kawasaki, 46
                                               Knickerbocker, F.T.,293
 IBM, 70, 77, 98, 126, 134, 275, 293           KOA, Inc., 203
 IDC, Inc., 373                                Kodak, 15, 77
 Illinois Tool Works, 39, 116                  Komatsu, 42
 Imasco, Ltd., 31                              Kotler, P., 15811.
 Imitation, 171-172
 Incentive systems, 40-41, 52, 55, 250-251     Label industry, 206
 Inco, 347                                     Labor, 28
 Income elasticity, 165                        Laboratory animal industry, 201-202
 Indal, Inc., 207, 316                         Land, E., 62
 Industrial policy, 291-292, 295-296           Lawrence, M.O., 225n.
 Industry concentration, 18, 24, 27, 123,      Lead times, 329
       185-186                                 Leather industry, 257
 Industry consolidation, 185-186, 200-206      Letraset, Inc., 118
 Industry cooperation, 231                     Letter transfer industry, 118
 Industry data, 71-74                          Levitt, T., 120n., 161n., 162n.
Industry definition, 5, 32-33, 44, 136, 146,   Lift truck industry, 42, 43, 279, 289
       186-187                                 Light aircraft industry, 169
Industry elasticity of demand, 23n.            Lincoln Electric Company, 36
Industry evolution                             Liquidation value, 260
    and buyers, 122                            Liquor industry, 148
    capacity expansion, 324-338                Liquor retailing, 13, 192
    in declining industries, 254-274           Lobster fishing industry, 196, 211
    in emerging industries, 215-236            Logan, J.P., 63n.
    and entry, 345, 348-349                    Logging equipment industry, 10n.
    and the experience curve, 174-175          Long-term contracts, 318-319
    and overcoming fragmentation, 200-206
    and strategic group mapping, 153-155       Machine tool industry, 244
    and strategic groups, 135-136, 151-152     Macintosh, 37
    and strategy formulation, 30-31            Make or buy decisions, 301
    theory of, 156-188                         Management skills, 252-253
    and transition to maturity, 237-253        Mark Controls, 242-243
Industry forecasting, 71, 153-155              Market for companies, 350-356
Industry growth                                Market leadership, 191, 201-211, 234,
    determinants of, 164-169                        246-247, 267-269, 332
    and complementary products, 167            Market share
    and consumer needs, 165-166                  and cost position, 36
    and demographics, 164-165                    in maturing industries, 248
    and penetration, 167-168                     and profitability, 42-44, 145-148
    and rivalry, 18                            ~ a r k esignals,
                                                         i       75187, 89, 94, 102-105,
    and substitute products, 166-167                268, 328, 333, 337
Industry profitability, 3-4, 5-6, 19, 22-23,   Martin-Brower, 40
      142-148, 186, 240                        Massey Fergusen, 246
Industry salience, 286                         Matsushita, 290
Industry structure, 3-33, 90-91, 126-153,      Mature industries, 237-253
      156-188, 196                             Maxwell House, 70, 84, 85
Information in markets, 26, 91, 106-107,       Mavtae. 130. 238
      263, 287, 304, 315, 345-346              M ~ D O Gcorporation,
                                                               I ~ * S 203, 252, 280
Initial structure, 162                         McKinsey and C o m.~ a n-v. .121n.. 224n.. 362.
Instability of sales, 197                           365 -
Internal development, 340-350                  Mead Corporation, 270
International competition, 5, 181, 240, 246;   Meat packing industsy, 148, 201
-.    see also Global industries
Ibrviewing: see Field interviewing
                                               Mechanical calculator industry, 178
                                               Medical products, 283
Intravenous solutions industry, 10             Mehta, N.T.,l t l n . , 26%.
                                                                                  INDEX

Men's clothing industry, 310-311               Packaged food industry, 355
Mercedes-Benz. 37, 43                          Packard, 218
Metal container industry, 37, 127, 180, 246,   Paint industry, 39, 81n.
    252, 309, 318                              Panasonic (Matsushita), 46
Metal distribution industry, 208               Panty hose industry, 54
Metal enclosure industry, 26                   Paper industry, 4, 39, 331
Metal fabrication industry, 191                Paramount Pictures, 60
Microcomputer industry, 204                    Patton, A., 161n.
Miller Brewing Company, 7, 60                  Pepsi Cola, 145
Minicomputer industry, 17, 70, 109, 137,       Perdue, F., 318
    173, 179, 204, 218, 223, 227, 305          Perdue Chicken, 134, 318
Mining industry, 137-138                       Perfectly competitive industry, 6
Mitsubishi, 295                                Perfume industry, 148
Mixed motives, 70-71, 97                       Periodicals industry, 148
Mobile home industry, 176, 207                 Perrier, 215
Mobility barriers; see also Entry barriers     personal computer industry, 215, 218
 in emerging industries, 220-221, 231-232      Pet, Inc., 275
 in global industries, 281                     Philip Morris, 6, 60
 and industry concentration, 185-186           Philips, 20, 217
 and marketing innovation, 178                 Photofinishing industry, 21
 and process innovation, 178-180               Photographic equipment industry, 15, 77,
 and product innovation, 177-178                    148
 and R&D, 173-174                              Pioneering, 232-234
 theory, 132-136, 154                          Pizza Hut, 203
 and vertical integration, 308-310             Plastics industry, 297
Modular housing industry, 223, 224             Pleasure boat industry, 179-180
Monfort, 315                                   Polaroid Corporation, 15, 62, 318
Moore, F.G., 301                               Polli,,R., 158n.
Motorcycle industry, 46, 158, 276, 289, 290    Pollution control industry, 13
Motorola, 78-79                                H.K. Porter Paint, 39
Movie industry, 60, 177, 178                   Portfolio models, 53-54, 56-57, 255, 270,
Mr. Coffee, Inc., 221                               361-367 (Appendix A)
Mr. Pibb, 85                                   Potential competitors, 49-50
Mushroom farming industry, 134, 197,           Potential industry structure, 163
    201-202, 206                               Pottery industry, 148
                                               Poultry industry, 134, 318
Nash, 218                                      Preemptive strategy, 76-77, 79, 327-328,
National Can Corporation, 127                       335-338
Nature of entrants, 232                        Prelude Corporation, 211
Nestle, 275                                    Prestressed concrete, 282
New industries: see Emerging industries        Price competition, 17, 248
Newman, H.H., 63n., 138n.                      Pricing, 242-243
Newspaper industry, 207                        Prisoner's dilemma, 88-89
Nickel industry, 332, 347                      Privately held firms: see Owner-managed
Nightclub industry, 198                             firms
Norton-Villers-Triumph, 46                     Process innovation, 243
                                               Procter and Gamble, 21, 84, 143-144, 356
Obsolescence, 228                              Product differentiation
Oil field equipment industry, 4, 26              and economies of scale, 16
Oil industry, 140, 296                           effect of buyer learning on, 170-171
Oil tanker shipping industry, 6, Ion., 192,      effect on industry fragmentation, 199
     281, 320, 329, 331                          effect on rivalry, 19
Oligopoly, 88                                    in global industries, 280
Operating leverage, 309-310                      and the product life cycle, 159-161
Optical, medical and opthalmic goods in-         and suppliers, 28
     dustry, 148                                 theory, 21-22, 31, 37-38, 46, 116, 119,
Optical character reader industry, 169              192, 208
Organizational structure                         and vertical integration, 307-308, 315,
  in competitor analysis, 40-41, 52, 55             318
  decentralized organization, 207              Product innovation, 168-169, 177-178, 240
  implications of industry maturity,           Product life cycle, 30, 157-162
     249-253                                   Product life cycle of international trade,
  overcentralization, 211-212                       284-285
Owner-managed firms, 19, 198, 212'             Product line rationalization, 241-242
Index

Product quality, 223                           Securities industry, 181
Product standards, 222                         Security equipment industry, 166
Product testing, 13                            Security guard industry, 24, 166, 181-182,
Public accounting industry, 9                        186
Public goods, 278                              Seismographic services industry, 116, 281
Publishing industry, 300, 310                  Semiconductor industry, 129, 173, 280
Pulp and paper industry, 265                   Service industries, 6, 191, 197, 198
Purchasing strategy, 122-125, 280              Sewing machine industry, 276, 282
                                               Shared costs, 8, 9, 13; see also Portfolio
Quasi-integration, 301, 321                          models
Question mark business, 363                    Sharp, 45-46
                                               Shell, 365
Radio broadcasting industry, 166, 168, 180     Sherwin-Williams, 81n.
Railroad industry, 13                          Shipbuilding industry, 12, 292, 297, 330
Ralston Purina, 134                            Siege], S., 75n.
Rate of industry decline, 256-257              Siemens, 295
Rate of market penetration, 225-229            Size of company, and profitability, 145-148
Raw materials industr y , 11, 13, 220,         Skiing equipment industry, 186
     221-222                                   Skinner, W., 245-246
Rayon industry, 23, 256, 259, 260              Small appliance industry, 180
Raytheon Company, 260                          Small gasoline engine industry, 36
Razor blade industry, 15, 96                   Smallwood, J.E., 161n.
RCA Corporation, 178, 217, 242, 248            Smart, Inc., 373
Ready-to-wear clothing industry, 26           Smoke alarm industry, 215, 217, 222, 224,
Real estate brokerage industry, 203                 231
Real estate investment trusts industry, 330   Snecma, 295
Recognition Equipment Company, 169            Snowmobile industry, 21, 168, 227, 237
Recording industry, 165, 180-181, 199, 203,   Soap industry, 148
     30-301                                   Soft drink industry, 85, 145, 148, 152, 166
Recreational vehicle industry, 15, 21, 168,   Solar heating industry, 29, 31, 171, 182,
     171, 176, 222, 232, 348                        192, 200, 215, 217, 218, 219, 222-223,
Refrigerator industry, 289, 290-291                 224
Regional industries: see Fragmented indus-    Sony Corporation, 20, 46
     tries                                    Southland Corporation, 244
Regulation: see Government policy             Spence, A.M., 102n., 327n.
Renault, 295                                  Spin-off firms, 172, 218-219
Repeat buyers, 167-168                        Sporting goods industry, 21, 148
Re~lacementdemand. 168                        Standard Industrial Classification Code, 370
~ & e a r c hand develo ment, 7, 10, 27,      Stanford Research Institute, 373
     173-174                                  Star business, 363
Retailers, 26                                 Staudt, T.A., 161n.
Retailing industry, 180, 191, 192, 200, 240   Storage costs, 18, 28
Retaliation: see Competitive reaction         Steel industry, 4, 6, 297
Retaliation lags, 95-98                       Strategic dimensions, 127-129
Rivalry, 17-23, 138-142, 266-267              Strategic distance, 139-140
R.J. Reynolds, 62, 355                        Strategic group mapping, 131-132, 140-141,
Robert Hall, Inc., 310-311                          152-155
Robinson-Patman Act, 317                      Strategic groups, 129-155
Roijtman, M., 62                              Strategic planning processes, xix-xx,
Roper Corporation, 130                              183-184
Rothschild, W.E., 63n.                        Strengths and weaknesses: see Competitor
Rough terrain cranes, 36-37                         analysis
Rudden, E., 275n.                             Substitute products, 6, 23-24, 137-138,
                                                   166-167, 258
Salter, M., 339n., 361n.                      Sugar industry, 23
Saturday Evening Post, 310                    Sulfuric acid industry, 114, 303, 309
Scale economies: see Economies of scale       Sulphur industry, 11
Scenarios, 234, 326                           Sultan, R.G.M., 105n.
Schelling, T., 106                            Sundstrand Corporation, 244
Schlumberger, 116                             Supermarket industry, 207, 210
Sears Roebuck, 137, 187                       Suppliers
Secrecy, 106-107                                 bargaining power, 27-28
Securities brokers, 23                           role in emerging industries, 231
Securities and Exchange Commission, 80          strategy toward, 122-125
Sustainable growth, 66                       Vacuum tube industry, 221, 260
Switching costs, 19, 21, 25, 26, 28, 114,    Value added, 18, 207-208
    120, 122, 124, 227-228, 274              Valve industry, 242-243
Switzerland. 94                              Varian Associates, 218
                                             Vernon, R., 294n., 295n.
Talent agencies, 199                         Vertical integration
Tapered integration, 25, 125, 301, 319-320     and buyer power, 25
Tariffs, 286                                   and capacity expansion, 331
Tax losses, 262n.                              in declining industries, 262-263
Tax ~olicv.334                                 in emerging industries, 232
~ a ~ l bD.;
          r , 161n.                            as an entry barrier, 9
Technological change,- 216-217, 222,           in fragmented industries, 207-208, 210
     329-i30                                   and nlobal industries. 290
Technological innovation, 12, 16, 21, 229      implications for purchasing strategy,
Telecommunications equipment industry,            122-125
     290                                       and industry evolution, 176
Television broadcasting industry, 166          and innovation, 178, 179
Television set industry, 9, 146, 148, 178,     theory, 15, 30-31, 114, 300-323
     217, 221, 276, 290, 293, 297, 329       Video disc industry, 217
Tennis industry, 237                         Video game industry, 171, 215, 221, 223
Tests for consistency of strategy, xix       Vinyl chloride industry, 19
Texas Gulf Sulphur, 11                       Vlasic Pickles, 354
Texas Instruments, 13, 36, 51, 78-79, 100,   Vogt, E., 275n.
     129. 315                                Volkswagen, 98
Texfi, 252                                   Volvo, 295
Textile industry. 262, 297
Timber industry, 186                         Wall Street, 223, 233
Timex Corporation, 11, 94, 96, 97-98,        Warner Brothers, 203
     150-151, 280                            Watch industry, 11, 94, 97-98, 100, 151,
Timing of entry, 142, 144                        178, 180, 222, 223, 315
Tire industry, 4, 6                          Wayne, K., 16n.
Toiletries industry, 4, 146, 180             Weinhold, W., 339n., 361n.
Toilet tissue industry, 144                  Welding equipment and supplies industry,
Towels and linen industry, 37                    36
Toy industry, 148, 202, 297                  Wells, L.T., Jr., 161n., 284n.
Toyota, 42, 279                              Wertheim and Company, 42n.
Transactions costs, 113-114                  Westinghouse, 244
Transfer pricing, 306                        White Consolidated, 244, 253
Transportation costs, 197, 282               Wholesalers, 26
Trucking industry, 13                        Windfall profits, 6, 22
Turbine generator industry, 105, 121, 280    Wind industry, 15, 178, 182-183, 185, 205
                                             Women's clothing industry, 146, 198
Uncertainty                                  Word processing industry, 215
  and capacity expansion, 327-328            World industries: see Global industries
  role in declining industries, 256-257      Writing instrument industry, 52
United Brands, 183
U.S. Census, 376                             Xerox Corporation, 7, 10, 174n., 349
About the Author




M ICHAEL E. PORTER, one of the world's leading authorities on competitive
strategy and international competitiveness, is the C. Roland Christensen
Professor of Business Administration at the Harvard Business School. In
1983, Professor Porter was appointed to President Reagan's Commission
on Industrial Competitiveness, the initiative that triggered the competi-
tiveness debate in America. He serves as an advisor to heads of state, gov-
ernors, mayors, and CEOs throughout the world. The recipient of the
Wells Prize in Economics, the Adam Smith Award, three McKinsey
Awards, and honorary doctorates from the Stockholm School of Econom-
ics and six other universities, Porter is the author of fourteen books, among
them Competitive Advantage, The Competitive Advantage of Nations, and
Cases in Competitive Strategy, all published by The Free Press. He lives in
Brookline, Massachusetts.
      "Three overarching game plans that work in one industry after
       another explain how thousands of real-world competitors come out
       0'" top."                                         !&           -""..
                                                            -- , '. .

      "American executiv~-re grasping for a logic: to global competition.     I
       Mr. Porter . . h s given them o m "         T t , , New Y d l%?w


I     "Few boob wnmnt the too-em-           publisher's blurb '1andmark!      I

I
       This one does. Highest rec--7mendatio- "

      "Represents a quantum leap . . . may well


I
       tant contributions to the discipline of strategic management."
                                           -Strategic Manugment Joztnzai




I
      "Any manager who studies and uses the materials in this book should
       be able to devise more successful strategies."
                                                                iy
                                             -Journal of Business Strat*
                                                            7,Ji


      "Porter's books on competitive strategy are the seminal'warks b the




I
       field." -   P    h    i    l    i    p Kotler, S.C.Johnson tk Son      1
                       Distinguished Professor of International Mark*
                                                  Northwestern University     I




    I S B N 0-684-84148-7
