strategic management and competitive advantage concepts and cases 6th
“Value. Rarity. Imitability.
Organization.”
What Is It?
This book is not just a list of concepts, models, and theories. It is the
first undergraduate textbook to introduce a theory-based, multi-
chapter organizing framework to add additional structure to the
field of strategic management.


“VRIO” is a mechanism that integrates two existing theoretical
frameworks: the positioning perspective and the resource-based
view. It is the primary tool for accomplishing internal analysis. It
stands for four questions one must ask about a resource or
capability to determine its competitive potential:


    1. The Question of Value: Does a resource enable a firm to
       exploit an environmental opportunity, and/or neutralize an
       environmental threat?
    2. The Question of Rarity: Is a resource currently controlled by
       only a small number of competing firms?
    3. The Question of Imitability: Do firms without a resource face
       a cost disadvantage in obtaining or developing it?
    4. The Question of Organization: Are a firm’s other policies
       and procedures organized to support the exploitation of its
       valuable, rare, and costly-to-imitate resources?
What’s the Benefit of the VRIO
Framework?
The VRIO framework is the organizational foundation of the text. It
creates a decision-making framework for students to use in
analyzing case and business situations.


Students tend to view concepts, models, and theories (in all of their
coursework) as fragmented and disconnected. Strategy is no
exception. This view encourages rote memorization, not real
understanding. VRIO, by serving as a consistent framework,
connects ideas together. This encourages real understanding, not
memorization.


This understanding enables students to better analyze business
cases and situations—the goal of the course.


The VRIO framework makes it possible to discuss the formulation
and implementation of a strategy simultaneously, within each
chapter.


Because the VRIO framework provides a simple integrative
structure, we are actually able to address issues in this book that are
largely ignored elsewhere—including discussions of vertical
integration, outsourcing, real options logic, and mergers and
acquisitions, to name just a few.
Strategic Management and
Competitive Advantage
Concepts and Cases
Edition 6


Jay B. Barney
The University of Utah
William S. Hesterly
The University of Utah




New York, NY
Vice President, Business, Economics, and UK Courseware:
Donna Battista
Director of Portfolio Management: Stephanie Wall
Director, Courseware Portfolio Management: Ashley Dodge
Senior Sponsoring Editor: Neeraj Bhalla
Editorial Assistant: Linda Albelli
Vice President, Product Marketing: Roxanne McCarley
Senior Product Marketer: Becky Brown
Product Marketing Assistant: Marianela Silvestri
Manager of Field Marketing, Business Publishing: Adam
Goldstein
Field Marketing Manager: Nicole Price
Vice President, Production and Digital Studio, Arts and
Business: Etain O’Dea
Director of Production, Business: Jeff Holcomb
Managing Producer, Business: Melissa Feimer
Content Producer: Sugandh Juneja
Operations Specialist: Carol Melville
Design Lead: Kathryn Foot
Manager, Learning Tools: Brian Surette
Content Developer, Learning Tools: Lindsey Sloan
Managing Producer, Digital Studio and GLP, Media Production
and Development: Ashley Santora
Managing Producer, Digital Studio: Diane Lombardo
Digital Studio Producer: Monique Lawrence
Digital Studio Producer: Alana Coles
Project Managers: Liza Marie Borja and Shylaja G., SPi Global
Interior Design: SPi Global
Cover Design: Maureen McCutcheon, SPi Global
Cover Art and Interior Illustrations: Gary Hovland
Printer/Binder: LSC Communications, Inc./Willard
Cover Printer: Phoenix Color/Hagerstown


Microsoft and/or its respective suppliers make no representations
about the suitability of the information contained in the documents
and related graphics published as part of the services for any
purpose. All such documents and related graphics are provided “as
is” without warranty of any kind. Microsoft and/or its respective
suppliers hereby disclaim all warranties and conditions with regard to
this information, including all warranties and conditions of
merchantability, whether express, implied or statutory, fitness for a
particular purpose, title and non-infringement. In no event shall
Microsoft and/or its respective suppliers be liable for any special,
indirect or consequential damages or any damages whatsoever
resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an action of
contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising out of or in
connection with the use or performance of information available from
the services.


The documents and related graphics contained herein could include
technical inaccuracies or typographical errors. Changes are
periodically added to the information herein. Microsoft and/or its
respective suppliers may make improvements and/or changes in the
product(s) and/or the program(s) described herein at any time.
Partial screen shots may be viewed in full within the software version
specified.
Microsoft® and Windows® are registered trademarks of the
Microsoft Corporation in the U.S.A. and other countries. This book is
not sponsored or endorsed by or affiliated with the Microsoft
Corporation.


Copyright © 2019, 2015, 2012 by Pearson Education, Inc. or its
affiliates. All Rights Reserved. Manufactured in the United States of
America. This publication is protected by copyright, and permission
should be obtained from the publisher prior to any prohibited
reproduction, storage in a retrieval system, or transmission in any
form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying,
recording, or otherwise. For information regarding permissions,
request forms, and the appropriate contacts within the Pearson
Education Global Rights and Permissions department, please visit
www.pearsoned.com/permissions/.


Acknowledgments of third-party content appear on the appropriate
page within the text which constitutes an extension of this copyright
page.


PEARSON, ALWAYS LEARNING, and MYLAB are exclusive
trademarks owned by Pearson Education, Inc. or its affiliates in the
U.S. and/or other countries.


Unless otherwise indicated herein, any third-party trademarks, logos,
or icons that may appear in this work are the property of their
respective owners, and any references to third-party trademarks,
logos, icons, or other trade dress are for demonstrative or descriptive
purposes only. Such references are not intended to imply any
sponsorship, endorsement, authorization, or promotion of Pearson’s
products by the owners of such marks, or any relationship between
the owner and Pearson Education, Inc., or its affiliates, authors,
licensees, or distributors.

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data on File


1   18




ISBN 10:      0-13-474114-5
ISBN 13:978-0-13-474114-7
Dedication
This book is dedicated to my wife, Kim, and our 11
grandchildren: Isaac, Dylanie, Audrey, Chloe, Lucas,
Royal, Lincoln, Nolan, Theo, Cade, and Townes. They
help me remember that no success can compensate for
failure in the home.

—Jay B. Barney



This book is dedicated to my wife Denise and my soon
to be 14 grandchildren: Ellie, Owen, Emerson, Cade,
Elizabeth, Amelia, Eden, Asher, Lydia, Scarlett,
Charlotte, Amos, and Claire.


—William S. Hesterly
Brief Contents
Part 1: THE TOOLS OF STRATEGIC ANALYSIS


  CHAPTER 1 What Is Strategy and the Strategic Management
  Process? 2

  CHAPTER 2 Evaluating a Firm’s External Environment 26

  CHAPTER 3 Evaluating a Firm’s Internal Capabilities 62

  End-of-Part 1 Cases PC 1–1

Part 2: BUSINESS-LEVEL STRATEGIES

  CHAPTER 4 Cost Leadership 96

  CHAPTER 5 Product Differentiation 124

  CHAPTER 6 Flexibility and Real Options 154

  CHAPTER 7 Collusion 178

  End-of-Part 2 Cases PC 2–1


Part 3: CORPORATE STRATEGIES


  CHAPTER 8 Vertical Integration 202

  CHAPTER 9 Corporate Diversification 228
   CHAPTER 10 Organizing to Implement Corporate
   Diversification 256

   CHAPTER 11 Strategic Alliances 282

   CHAPTER 12 Mergers and Acquisitions 308

   End-of-Part 3 Cases PC 3–1

Appendix: Analyzing Cases and Preparing for Class
Discussions 339

Glossary 344

Company Index 352

Name Index 355

Subject Index 359
Contents
Part 1: THE TOOLS OF STRATEGIC ANALYSIS


  CHAPTER 1 What Is Strategy and the Strategic Management
  Process? 2
     Go, Pokémon Go 2

     Strategy and the Strategic Management Process 4
        Defining Strategy 4

       The Strategic Management Process 5


     What is Competitive Advantage? 8
       Research Made Relevant: How Sustainable Are
       Competitive Advantages? 10

       The Strategic Management Process, Revisited 10

     Measuring Competitive Advantage 11
       Accounting Measures of Competitive Advantage 11
          Strategy in Depth: The Business Model Canvas
          12


       Economic Measures of Competitive Advantage 16
         Ethics and Strategy: Stockholders Versus
         Stakeholders 18
     The Relationship Between Economic and Accounting
     Performance Measures 19

  Emergent Versus Intended Strategies 19

  Why you Need to Know About Strategy 20

  Summary 22

  Challenge Questions 23

  Problem Set 23

  End Notes 25


CHAPTER 2 Evaluating a Firm’s External Environment 26
  How Attractive is the Music Streaming Industry? 26


  Understanding a Firm’s General Environment 28

  The Structure-Conduct-Performance Model of Firm
  Performance 32

  Ethics and Strategy: Is a Firm Gaining a Competitive
  Advantage Good for Society? 32

  A Model of Environmental Threats 34
     Threat from New Competition 34
        Strategy in Depth: Environmental Threats and the
        S-C-P Model 35


  Another Environmental Force: Complements 45
   Industry Structure and Environmental Opportunities 46
      Research Made Relevant: The Impact of Industry and
      Firm Characteristics on Firm Performance 47

      Strategy in Depth: Network and Empty Core Industries
      48

      Opportunities in Fragmented Industries:
      Consolidation 49

      Opportunities in Emerging Industries: First-Mover
      Advantages 50

      Opportunities in Mature Industries: Product
      Refinement, Service, and Process Innovation 52

      Opportunities in Declining Industries: Leadership,
      Niche, Harvest, and Divestment 54


   Summary 57

   Challenge Questions 58

   Problem Set 59

   End Notes 60


CHAPTER 3 Evaluating a Firm’s Internal Capabilities 62
  When a Noun Becomes a Verb 62


   The Resource-Based View of the Firm 64
      What Are Resources and Capabilities? 64
   Critical Assumptions of the Resource-Based View
   65
      Strategy in Depth: Ricardian Economics and the
      Resource-Based View 66

The VRIO Framework 67
   The Question of Value 68
      Ethics and Strategy: Externalities and the Broader
      Consequences of Profit Maximization 69

   The Question of Rarity 71

   The Question of Imitability 73

   The Question of Organization 77
      Research Made Relevant: Strategic Human
      Resource Management Research 78

Applying the VRIO Framework 80
   Applying the VRIO Framework to Southwest Airlines
   81

   Southwest’s People-Management and Competitive
   Advantage 82

Imitation and Competitive Dynamics in an Industry 83
   Not Responding to Another Firm’s Competitive
   Advantage 84
     Changing Tactics in Response to Another Firm’s
     Competitive Advantage 84

     Changing Strategies in Response to Another Firm’s
     Competitive Advantage 85


  Implications of the Resource-Based View 86
     Where Does the Responsibility for Competitive
     Advantage in a Firm Reside? 86

     Competitive Parity and Competitive Advantage 88

     Difficult-to-Implement Strategies 88

     Socially Complex Resources 89

     The Role of Organization 89


  Summary 90

  Challenge Questions 91

  Problem Set 92

  End Notes 93

End-of-Part 1 Cases
  Case 1–1: Can SodaStream Disrupt the Carbonated Soft
  Drink Market? PC 1–1

  Case 1–2: True Religion Jeans: Flash in the Pants or
  Enduring Brand? PC 1–11
     Case 1–3: Walmart Stores, Inc. PC 1–26

     Case 1–4: Harlequin Enterprises: The Mira Decision PC
     1–39


Part 2: BUSINESS-LEVEL STRATEGIES

  CHAPTER 4 Cost Leadership 96
     Fashion Eyeglasses—At a Fraction of the Price 96

     What is Business-Level Strategy? 98

     What is Cost Leadership? 98
       Sources of Cost Advantages 98
            Strategy in Depth: Determining the Optimal Level
            of Production in an Industry 102

            Research Made Relevant: How Valuable Is Market
            Share—Really? 106

     Ethics and Strategy: The Race to the Bottom 108
     The Value of Cost Leadership 109
        Cost Leadership and Environmental Threats 109
            Strategy in Depth: The Economics of Cost
            Leadership 110


     Cost Leadership and Sustained Competitive Advantage
     111
        The Rarity of Sources of Cost Advantage 112
     The Imitability of Sources of Cost Advantage 113


  Organizing to Implement Cost Leadership 117
     Organizational Structure in Implementing Cost
     Leadership 117


  Summary 120

  Challenge Questions 121

  Problem Set 122

  End Notes 123

CHAPTER 5 Product Differentiation 124
  Who Is Victoria, and What Is Her Secret? 124


  What is Product Differentiation? 126
     Bases of Product Differentiation 127
        Research Made Relevant: Discovering the Bases of
        Product Differentiation 129


     Product Differentiation and Creativity 132


  The Value of Product Differentiation 133
     Product Differentiation and Environmental Threats
     133
        Strategy in Depth: The Economics of Product
        Differentiation 134
   Product Differentiation and Environmental
   Opportunities 135


Ethics and Strategy: Product Claims and the Ethical
Dilemmas in Health Care 136

Product Differentiation and Sustained Competitive
Advantage 137
   Rare Bases for Product Differentiation 137

   The Imitability of Product Differentiation 137


Organizing to Implement Product Differentiation 143
   Organizational Structure and Implementing Product
   Differentiation 143

   Management Controls and Implementing Product
   Differentiation 144
      Strategy in Depth: Going in Search of Blue Oceans
      145


   Compensation Policies and Implementing Product
   Differentiation Strategies 147


Can Firms Implement Product Differentiation and Cost
Leadership Simultaneously? 148
   No: These Strategies Cannot Be Implemented
   Simultaneously 148
     Yes: These Strategies Can Be Implemented
     Simultaneously 149


  Summary 150

  Challenge Questions 151

  Problem Set 152

  End Notes 153

CHAPTER 6 Flexibility and Real Options 154
  Why Is Netflix called Netflix? 154

  What is Strategic Flexibility? 156
     Types of Flexibility 156

  The Value of Strategic Flexibility 158
     Incorporating Risk in Strategic Decision Making 159

     Limitations of Risk Based Decision Making Under
     Uncertainty 159

     Valuing Flexibility 160
        Strategy in Depth: The Black-Scholes Model for
        Valuing Financial Options 161

        Research Made Relevant: The Value of Real
        Options Thinking 169


  Strategic Flexibility and Sustained Competitive
  Advantage 172
     Rare and Costly-to-Imitate Flexibility 172


  Organizing to Implement Strategic Flexibility 173

  Ethics and Strategy Feature: Treating Employees as
  Flexible Assets 174


  Summary 175

  Challenge Questions 175

  Problem Set 176

  End Notes 177


CHAPTER 7 Collusion 178
  A Gas Station Conundrum 178

  What is Collusion? 180

  Ethics and Strategy Feature: The Ethics of Collusion
  181

  The Value of Collusion 182
     Colluding to Reduce the Threat of New Competitors
     182

     Colluding to Reduce the Threat of Current
     Competitors 183
        Strategy in Depth: How Colluding Firms Generate
        Economic Profits 183
      Colluding to Reduce Other Competitive Threats 184


  Collusion and Sustained Competitive Advantage 184
      Ways Firms Can Cheat on Collusive Agreements
      185

      Explicit and Tacit Collusion 189

      Industry Attributes and the Threat of Cheating 189
          Research Made Relevant: Sending Signals to
          Maintain Collusion 190

      Rarity and Costly to Imitate Collusion Strategies 196


  Organizing to Implement Tacit Collusion 197
      Organizational Efficiency 197

      Organizational Self-Discipline 198


  Summary 198

  Challenge Questions 199

  Problem Set 199

  End Notes 200


End-of-Part 2 Cases
  Case 2–1: McDonald’s: Comeback in the U.S. Burger
  Market? PC 2–1
  * This case was prepared by William Hesterly for the purposes of class discussion.
Case 2–2: The Levi’s Personal Pair Proposal PC 2–7
*Used with permission of Professor Russell Coff and the Goizueta Business
School.


Case 2–3: Papa John’s International, Inc.: Growth
Challenges PC 2–17

Case 2–4: Ryanair—The Low Fares Airline PC 2–24
* This case was written by Eleanor O’Higgins, University College Dublin. It is
intended to be used as a basis for class discussion rather than to illustrate
effective or ineffective handling of a management situation.
© Eleanor O’Higgins, 2011. All rights reserved.


Case 2–5: Torrey Nano, Inc. PC 48
*This case is intended for class discussion only. Torrey Nano is a fictitious
company and, while nanotechnology is believed to offer great promise for the
future in pharmaceuticals, technical details in the case may not reflect reality.


Case 2–6: Collusion in Major League Baseball PC 52
* This case was prepared by William Hesterly for the purposes of class discussion.
Much of the case is based on earlier research by William Hesterly and Aya Chacar.
Aya S. Chacar and William Hesterly, 2008, “Institutional Settings and Rent
Appropriation by Knowledge-based Employees: The Case of Major League
Baseball, Managerial and Decision Economics, 29:117-136. Aya S. Chacar and
William Hesterly, 2004, “Innovation and Value Creation in Major League Baseball.”
Business History, 46, 407-420. This research drew heavily on the historical
accounts of the following sources: R.F. Burk, 1994, Never Just a Game: Players,
Owners and American Baseball to 1920. University of North Carolina Press,
Chapel Hill, NC. John Helyar, Lords of the Realm: The Real History of Baseball.>
New York: Ballantine Books. G.E. White, Creating the National Pastime: Baseball
Transforms Itself, 1903-53. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Part 3: CORPORATE STRATEGIES

  CHAPTER 8 Vertical Integration 202
     Outsourcing Research 202


     What Is Corporate Strategy? 204

     What Is Vertical Integration? 204

     The Value of Vertical Integration 205
        Strategy in Depth: Measuring Vertical Integration
        206

        Vertical Integration and the Threat of Opportunism
        207

        Vertical Integration and Firm Capabilities 209

        Vertical Integration and Flexibility 210

        Applying the Theories to the Management of Call
        Centers 212
           Research Made Relevant: Empirical Tests of
           Theories of Vertical Integration 212


        Integrating Different Theories of Vertical Integration
        214

     Vertical Integration and Sustained Competitive Advantage
     215
        The Rarity of Vertical Integration 215
     Ethics and Strategy: The Ethics of Outsourcing 216

     The Imitability of Vertical Integration 217


  Organizing to Implement Vertical Integration 218
     Organizational Structure and Implementing Vertical
     Integration 218

     Management Controls and Implementing Vertical
     Integration 219

     Compensation in Implementing Vertical Integration
     Strategies 221

  Summary 223

  Challenge Questions 224

  Problem Set 225

  End Notes 226


CHAPTER 9 Corporate Diversification 228
  The Worldwide Leader 228


  What is Corporate Diversification? 230
     Types of Corporate Diversification 231

     Limited Corporate Diversification 231

     Related Corporate Diversification 232

     Unrelated Corporate Diversification 233
   The Value of Corporate Diversification 233
      What Are Valuable Economies of Scope? 233
         Research Made Relevant: How Valuable Are
         Economies of Scope? 234


      Can Equity Holders Realize These Economies of
      Scope on Their Own? 247


      Ethics and Strategy: Globalization and the Threat of
      the Multinational Firm 248


   Corporate Diversification and Sustained Competitive
   Advantage 249
      The Rarity of Diversification 249
         Strategy in Depth: Risk-Reducing Diversification
         and a Firm’s Other Stakeholders 249


      The Imitability of Diversification 251


   Summary 252

   Challenge Questions 253

   Problem Set 253

   End Notes 254


CHAPTER 10 Organizing to Implement Corporate
Diversification 256
   Is It Soup Yet? 256
Organizational Structure and Implementing Corporate
Diversification 258
   The Board of Directors 259
      Strategy in Depth: Agency Conflicts Between
      Managers and Equity Holders 261

      Research Made Relevant: The Effectiveness of
      Boards of Directors 262


   Institutional Owners 263

   The Senior Executive 264

   Corporate Staff 265

   Division General Manager 267

   Shared Activity Managers 268

Management Controls and Implementing Corporate
Diversification 270
   Evaluating Divisional Performance 270

   Allocating Corporate Capital 273

   Transferring Intermediate Products 274


Compensation Policies and Implementing Corporate
Diversification 277


Ethics and Strategy: Do CEOs Get Paid Too Much? 278
  Summary 278

  Challenge Questions 279

  Problem Set 279

  End Notes 281


CHAPTER 11 Strategic Alliances 282
  Alliances Between Chinese and U.S. Firms 282


  What is a Strategic Alliance? 284

  How do Strategic Alliances Create Value? 285

  Strategic Alliance Opportunities 285

  Strategy in Depth: Winning Learning Races 287

  Research Made Relevant: Do Strategic Alliances
  Facilitate Tacit Collusion? 290

  Alliance Threats: Incentives to Cheat on Strategic
  Alliances 292
     Adverse Selection 293

     Moral Hazard 293

     Holdup 294


  Ethics and Strategy: When It Comes to Alliances, Do
  “Cheaters Never Prosper”? 295
  Strategic Alliances and Sustained Competitive Advantage
  296
     The Rarity of Strategic Alliances 296

     The Imitability of Strategic Alliances 297

  Organizing to Implement Strategic Alliances 300
     Explicit Contracts and Legal Sanctions 300

     Equity Investments 301

     Firm Reputations 302

     Joint Ventures 303

     Trust 304


  Summary 304

  Challenge Questions 305

  Problem Set 305

  End Notes 306


CHAPTER 12 Mergers and Acquisitions 308
  The Travails of Technology Acquisitions 308

  Ethics and Strategy: Is Greed Good? 310


  What Are Mergers and Acquisitions? 311

  The Value of Mergers and Acquisitions 312
  Mergers and Acquisitions: No Economies of Scope
  312

  Mergers and Acquisitions: When Economies of Scope
  Exist 313

  Returns to Mergers and Acquisitions: Research
  Results 317
    Strategy in Depth: Evaluating the Performance
     Effects of Acquisitions 317


  Why Are There So Many Mergers and Acquisitions?
  318


Mergers and Acquisitions and Sustained Competitive
Advantage 321
  Valuable, Rare, and Private Economies of Scope 321

  Valuable, Rare, and Costly-to-Imitate Economies of
  Scope 322

  Unexpected Valuable Economies of Scope Between
  Bidding and Target Firms 323

  Implications for Bidding Firm Managers 324

  Implications for Target Firm Managers 328
     Research Made Relevant: The Wealth Effects of
     Management Responses to Takeover Attempts
     329
     Organizing to Implement a Merger or Acquisition 332
          Post-Merger Integration and Implementing a
          Diversification Strategy 332

          Special Challenges in Post-Merger Integration 333


     Summary 335

     Challenge Questions 335

     Problem Set 336

     End Notes 337


  End-of-Part 3 Cases
     Case 3–1: National Hockey League Enterprises Canada: A
     Retail Proposal PC 3–2

     Case 3–2: Starbucks: An Alex Poole Strategy Case PC 3–
     7

     Case 3–3: Rayovac Corporation: International Growth and
     Diversification Through Acquisitions PC 3–20

     Case 3–4: Aegis Analytical Corporation’s Strategic
     Alliances PC 3–32

     Case 3–5: Activision’s Crush on Mobile Gaming PC 3–
     42


Appendix: Analyzing Cases And Preparing For Class
Discussions 339
Glossary 344

Company Index 352

Name Index 355

Subject Index 359
Preface
New to this Edition

What Should Be Included in a Strategic
Management Text?
A very interesting question. Some books seem to think that the
answer to this question is: Everything. And so, they get longer and
longer each edition. Nothing dropped, plenty added.


We have taken a very different approach:

   Topics that are now covered more completely in non-strategic
   management texts are dropped.
   Models or frameworks that have proved to be theoretically
   unsound or empirically not substantiated are dropped.
   Strategic management models that provide important insights
   that have emerged over the last few years are added.


The result of all these changes is that the sixth edition of our text is
just about the same length as the first edition, although the content
of the sixth edition is dramatically different than all prior editions.
What Have We Dropped
Two elements have most obviously been dropped from this edition.
In both cases, this decision was made, not because these are
unimportant topics, but rather, because they are so important that
non-strategic management text books have been written to address
them.

   The “Strategy in the Emerging Enterprise” feature in each chapter
   has been dropped. As entrepreneurship teaching has become
   more important, these topics have been receiving enhanced
   coverage in entrepreneurship texts.
   The “International Strategies” chapter has been dropped. Again,
   this is not because international strategy is unimportant. Rather, it
   is so important that entire texts are dedicated to this topic.
What Has Been Added
By dropping these two topics, we were able to add two new chapters
to this edition, while keeping the length of the book more or less the
same.


   Chapter Six: Flexibility and Real Options. This chapter
   summarizes the latest theoretical and empirical work on the value
   of strategic flexibility. It describes the settings under which
   flexibility will create value, and how that value can be estimated.
Chapter Seven: Collusion. This chapter explores the economic
—and ethical—implications of explicit and tacit collusion. Even if
a particular firm chooses to not engage in collusion, it must still
understand this strategy and its economic consequences,
because some of its competitors may choose this strategy.
These two chapters have all the teaching elements (learning
objectives, opening case, Research made Relevant feature, Strategy
in Depth feature, Ethics and Strategy feature, challenge questions,
and a problem set) and are supported by cases, just like the other
chapters in the book. However, they explore important strategic
options that receive less attention in other texts.

Of course, all the opening cases and examples used throughout the
book have been updated or changed, as have the supporting cases
and instructor’s manual. New opening cases include:

   “Go, Pokemon, Go” in Chapter One: This case discusses how
   the Pokemon altered reality game was created, and asks if this
   product will be a source of sustained competitive advantage.
“How Attractive is the Music Streaming Business?” in Chapter
Two: Music streaming services are very popular, but very few
make money. Why is this the case, and what impact will this have
on the strategies of these firms?
“When a Noun Becomes a Verb” in Chapter Three: Why has
Google gained a competitive advantage, and will they be able to
sustain it?
   “Is it Soup Yet” in Chapter Ten: Alphabet has organized itself into
   a multi-divisional corporation, but will this help this company, and
   its operating divisions—including Google—grow and maintain
   their competitive advantage.

New supporting cases include: McDonald’s, Collusion in Major
League Baseball, Torrey Nano (a fictional case), and Activision’s
Crush on Mobile Gaming.
What Remains the Same
All the chapters in the book—beginning with Chapter Three—are still
organized around the VRIO framework. Students at all levels
continue to find this framework helpful in thinking about and applying
what can be a very complex topic—strategic management.




We also continue to integrate the latest theory and empirical
research into the text—but in a way that helps students apply these
concepts in a real world setting. Consider just two examples:


   The “Research Made Relevant” feature in Chapter Six’s
   discussion of flexibility and real options presents a simple—yet
   remarkably powerful—way of calculating the value of a firm’s
   strategic options
   The “Research Made Relevant” feature in Chapter Nine’s
   discussion of the value of economies of scope cites the most
   recent research—some published in 2017—about this important
   issue.


We have also kept our most popular supporting cases, including
True Religion, Harlequin, Walmart, and Starbucks among others.
With only a couple of exceptions, the revised cases are shorter. In
shortening the cases, we have mostly cut out historical and other
peripheral background material. Two of the new cases, Collusion in
Major League Baseball and Torrey Nano, require students to apply
concepts from the new chapters in the book on collusion and
flexibility. As has been true of all of the editions, the vast majority of
the cases deal with companies and industries that students will find
familiar and, we hope, stimulating to analyze and discuss.
With the introduction on the chapters on strategic flexibility and real
options (Chapter Six) and collusion (Chapter Seven), the book
continues to include the most up to date conceptual and analytical
material in the field of strategic management, while presenting that
material in an accessible and applicable way.
Solving Teaching and Learning
Challenges
Some MBA and undergraduate business programs teach strategic
management early in the curriculum, to give students a broad
strategic perspective before they begin specializing in particular
functional areas. Others teach strategic management later in the
curriculum, after students have taken a deep dive into one or more
functional areas.

Students in these different programs bring very different skill sets to
the strategic management course. This book accommodates faculty
and students in both kinds of programs.


Teaching in a “Strategy First” Curriculum
Faculty who teach in “strategy first” programs can emphasize the
core text material in each chapter--and the associated cases--and
de-emphasize the “Strategy in Depth” and “Research Made
Relevant” features. This core material does not require much
background in other business functions, and when it does, the
required background is explained in detail. However, there is enough
substance in this material to enable students to read and analyze the
cases, and to apply strategic management ideas throughout their
curriculum, and into their career choices.
Teaching in a “Strategy Last” Curriculum
Faculty who teach in “strategy last” programs can broaden their
emphasis to include the Strategy in Depth and Research Made
Relevant features. These features include most of the technical,
economic, and mathematical discussions in the book—discussions
that build directly on knowledge students should have received in
their functional classes. These materials make it possible for
students and faculty to go into much more analytical detail in
discussing the cases, and help demonstrate how the ideas
developed in other functional areas are relevant in strategic
management.
MyLab Management

Reach every student by pairing this text with
MyLab Management
MyLab is the teaching and learning platform that empowers you to
reach every student. By combining trusted author content with digital
tools and a flexible platform, MyLab personalizes the learning
experience and improves results for each student. Learn more about
MyLab Management.


Deliver trusted content
You deserve teaching materials that meet your own high standards
for your course. That’s why we partner with highly respected authors
to develop interactive content and course-specific resources that you
can trust — and that keep your students engaged.


Empower each learner
Each student learns at a different pace. Personalized learning
pinpoints the precise areas where each student needs practice,
giving all students the support they need — when and where they
need it — to be successful.
Teach your course your way
Your course is unique. So whether you’d like to build your own
assignments, teach multiple sections, or set prerequisites, MyLab
gives you the flexibility to easily create your course to fit your needs.


Improve student results
When you teach with MyLab, student performance improves. That’s
why instructors have chosen MyLab for over 15 years, touching the
lives of over 50 million students.
Developing Employability Skills
Students who take the strategic management course often ask—how
can this course enhance my employability? This question is
answered in Chapter One of this book.

the VRIO framework is not just a tool for analyzing sources of
competitive advantage for firms, it can also be used by students to
assess whether or not they have a competitive advantage in the
labor market. Consider the following:


   Is a student’s knowledge of how to discount a firm’s cash flow
   likely to be a source of competitive advantage in the labor
   market? This skill is valuable, but—since every business student
   in the world learn this skill—it is not rare, and thus will only be a
   source of competitive parity for a student.
   Is a student’s ability to derive projected cash flows and an
   appropriate discount rate from a deep understanding of a firm’s
   strategy likely to be a source of competitive advantage in the
   labor market? This skill is also valuable, but—in my experience—
   it is more rare, and thus potentially a source of competitive
   advantage.
   Which is more likely to be a source of competitive advantage for
   a student in the labor market: The ability to recite the “Five P’s” in
   marketing or the ability to leverage their unique work experiences
   —either in a full time job or an internship—with their education to
   analyze a firm’s marketing strategy? The VRIO framework
   suggests the latter, not the former, approach will more likely be a
   source of competitive advantage.


Competing for a great job in the labor market is just another form of
competition. Students who want to gain a competitive advantage in
that market must build valuable, rare, and costly to imitate
capabilities. As described in Chapter Three, these capabilities will
typically need to be socially complex, path dependent, or causally
ambiguous.


Put differently, this book is not just about corporate competitive
advantage in the product market, it is also about a student’s
competitive advantage in the labor market.



Instructor Teaching Resources
At the Instructor Resource Center, www.pearsonhighered.com/irc,
instructors can easily register to gain access to a variety of instructor
resources available with this text in downloadable format. If
assistance is needed, our dedicated technical support team is ready
to help with the media supplements that accompany this text. Visit
https://support.pearson.com/getsupport for answers to frequently
asked questions and toll-free user support phone numbers.


This program comes with the following teaching resources.
Acknowledgments
The following people were helpful in the development of this edition
of the text: Stephanie

Wall, Director of Portfolio Management; Neeraj Bhalla, Senior
Sponsoring Editor; Sugandh Juneja, Content Producer; Melissa
Feimer, Managing Producer; Becky Brown, Senior Product Marketer;
and Liza Maria Borja, Shylaja.G, and Sreemeenakshi R, Project
Managers at SPi Global.

Finally, this book would have never been finished without Tresa Fish.
Thanks for everything, Tresa.
About The Authors
JAY B. BARNEY




Jay Barney is currently a Presidential Professor of Strategic
Management and holds the Lassonde Chair in Social
Entrepreneurship at the Eccles School of Business at the University
of Utah. He received his undergraduate degree from Brigham Young
University, and his master’s and Ph.D. degrees from Yale University.
Previously, he served on the faculties at the Anderson Graduate
School of Management at UCLA, the Mays School of Business at
Texas A&M University, and as the Chase Chair for Excellence in
Strategic Management at the Fisher College of Business at the Ohio
State University. He has also served as a visiting scholar at INSEAD
in Fontainebleau, France and as a visiting professor at the Said
Business School at Oxford University, United Kingdom.
Most of Professor Barney’s research focuses on how firms can gain
and sustain competitive advantages. He has published over 100
articles in a variety of outlets, including the Harvard Business
Review, the Sloan Management Review, the Strategic Management
Journal, the Academy of Management Review, the Academy of
Management Journal, and has published six books, including a novel
titled What I Didn’t Learn at Business School: How Strategy Works in
the Real World (with Trish Gorman). He has published some of the
most widely cited papers in the field of strategic management.


Professor Barney has won several awards for his research and
writing, including the Irwin Outstanding Educator Award for the
Business Policy and Strategy Division of the Academy of
Management, the Scholarly Contributions Award for the Academy of
Management, and three honorary doctoral degrees—from Lund
University (Sweden), the Copenhagen Business School (Denmark),
and Universidad Pontifica Comillas (Spain). He has also been
elected to the Academy of Management Fellows and the Strategic
Management Society Fellows and has won teaching awards at
UCLA, Texas A&M, and Ohio State.


Professor Barney has also served as an officer of the Business
Policy and Strategy Division of the Academy of Management, as a
member of the board and later an officer of the Strategic
Management Society, as an Associate Editor at the Journal of
Management, as a Senior Editor at Organization Science, as a Co-
editor at the Strategic Entrepreneurship Journal, and currently
serves as Editor at the Academy of Management Review.
Professor Barney consults with companies and other organizations
to help identify and leverage their sources of sustained competitive
advantage. His over 50 clients have included Honeywell, Hewlett
Packard, Texas Instruments, Koch Industries, Nationwide Insurance,
Cardinal Health, and Columbus Public Schools.
WILLIAM s. HESTERLY




William Hesterly is the Associate Dean for Faculty and Research and
the Dumke Family Presidential Chair of Strategic Management in the
David Eccles School of Business, University of Utah. After studying
at Louisiana State University, he received bachelors and master’s
degrees from Brigham Young University and a Ph.D. from the
University of California, Los Angeles.


Professor Hesterly’s research on organizational economics, vertical
integration, organizational forms, and entrepreneurial networks has
appeared in top journals including the Academy of Management
Review, Organization Science, Strategic Management Journal,
Journal of Management, and the Journal of Economic Behavior and
Organization. His research has been mentioned on the front page of
the Wall Street Journal and was featured prominently in Malcolm
Gladwell’s 2010 New Yorker article, “Talent Grab.”

Professor Hesterly’s research was recognized with the Western
Academy of Management’s Ascendant Scholar Award in 1999. Dr.
Hesterly has also received best paper awards from the Western
Academy of Management and the Academy of Management.
Professor Hesterly has served on the editorial boards of Strategic
Organization, Organization Science and the Journal of Management.
He also served as the Senior Editor of Long Range Planning, the
leading European journal in strategy.

Professor Hesterly has previously served as Associate Dean for
Academic Affairs, Department Chair, and also as Vice-President and
President of the faculty at the David Eccles School of Business at
the University of Utah. He was a founding member of the Strategic
Human Capital Interest Group in the Strategic Management Society
as well as a co-founder of the Utah-BYU Winter Strategy
Conference.

Professor Hesterly has been recognized multiple times as the
outstanding teacher in the MBA Program at the David Eccles School
of Business and he has also been the recipient of the Student’s
Choice Award. He has also received the outstanding teacher awards
in both the EMBA and PhD programs at the David Eccles School of
Business.
Professor Hesterly has served as a consultant to Fortune 500 firms
in the electronic, office equipment, paper, telecommunications,
energy, aerospace, and medical equipment industries. He has also
consulted with smaller firms in several other industries. He has
taught in a variety of executive programs, both in universities and
corporations.
Part 1 The Tools of Strategic
Analysis
Chapter 1 What Is Strategy and
the Strategic Management
Process?
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to:


               1.1 Define strategy and describe the strategic
               management process.
               1.2 Define competitive advantage and explain its
               relationship to economic value creation.
               1.3 Describe two different approaches to
               measuring competitive advantage.
               1.4 Explain the difference between emergent and
               intended strategies.
               1.5 Discuss why it is important for you to study
               strategy and the strategic management
               process.




      MyLab Management
         Improve Your Grade!

      If your instructor is using MyLab Management, visit
      www.pearson.com/mylab/management for
      simulations, tutorials, and end-of-chapter problems.
Go, Pokémon Go
Pokémon Go has had the most successful launch of any
mobile app. Ever. By far. Within 30 days of its July 2016
worldwide launch, Pokémon Go had been downloaded 130
million times. Within 90 days of its release, those downloads
had increased to 500 million, and the game had generated
$600 million in revenue. Within a month of its release,
Pokémon Go was more widely used than Snapchat, Tinder,
Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, or any other of the most
successful mobile apps. Since its release, millions of
Pokémon Go players have been wandering the world,
searching for Pokémon to capture as they try to complete
their Pokedex. The total distance that these people have
walked while playing the game is equal to the distance from
the planet Neptune to the sun.

Pokémon Go combines both content and technical elements.
From a content point of view, Pokémon Go is a successor to
the original Pokémon series of video games and related
products. Pokémon was first developed for Nintendo’s mobile
gaming device, GameBoy. Released in the United States on
September 30, 1998, it created a world of fanciful creatures,
with equally fanciful names—Pikachu, Lugia, Slowking,
Zapdos. Players captured various Pokémon—by Throwing a
Pokéball at each—and then trained them to compete in a
Pokémon League where their competitive prowess could be
put on display.
The original Pokémon combined competition, fantasy, and
collecting in a way that captured the minds of many gamers.
Its success helped establish Pokémon—a concept co-owned
by Nintendo, Game Freak, and Creatures—as a powerful
brand in the video game industry. Through the early 2000s,
Nintendo introduced successive versions of the Pokémon
game along with ancillary products, including books, cards,
videos, and chat rooms.




Liubomir Paut-Fluerasu/Alamy Stock Photo




Many of the elements of the original Pokémon game can be
found in Pokémon Go. However, these elements are
enhanced through the “augmented reality” game technology
of Nianatic Labs. Niantic Labs was originally part of Google.
Founded in 2010 by John Hanke, Niantic Lab’s first product—
Field Trip—was a mobile app that used Google Maps to guide
users to unique and hidden things around them. In October of
2013, Niantic Labs published its second app, Ingress. A
fantasy game, Ingress was the first app to use “augmented
reality,” an approach that combined elements created by the
game with real world phenomena. Though hailed as a
technical success, Ingress was only moderately successful.

In October of 2015, Google spun out Niantic Labs as a
separate company. Google, Nintendo, and Pokémon
Company together invested $30 million in the newly
independent firm. Niantic Labs raised another $5 million from
venture capitalists and business angels. On April Fool’s Day,
2014, Niantic Labs announced the “Google Maps Pokémon
Challenge.” A collaborative effort of Google, Pokémon, and
Niantic Labs, this challenge leveraged Niantic’s Ingress
technology by inviting players to discover Pokémon in the
game’s augmented reality. The surprising popularity of this
challenge led to the development of Pokémon Go. Pokémon
Go, in turn, was released to most of the world in July of 2016.

All those associated with Pokémon Go have done very well
financially. Nintendo’s market value jumped to as high as $42
billion—although it dropped once it became clear that
Nintendo has only a modest ownership stake in Pokémon Go.
Niantic Labs’ value rose to over $3.6 billion. Firms like Apple
—who sells more smart phones for people to play the game—
anticipates that its revenues will increase by $3 billion
because of Pokémon Go. And small firms, who can pay a
modest fee to put a Pokémon in or near their place of
business, have seen increases in revenues.
Of course, none of this has happened without challenges. In
the early days, Pokémon Go servers had a hard time keeping
up with demand. Certain locations have been inundated with
gamers looking for particularly rare Pokémon. Some locations
—including cemeteries and other memorials—turn out not to
be a good place to play the game. And some players have
focused so intensely on the game they have been involved in
accidents, some of which have been fatal.

From a business point of view, Pokémon Go’s success raises
additional questions. Is this just a fad, destined to disappear
as rapidly as it emerged? John Hanke says that only 10% of
their ideas for Pokémon Go have been implemented—will this
be enough to keep gamers interested? Is Pokémon Go’s
augmented reality the culmination of this technology, or only
the beginning? Is Niantic Labs best positioned to push the
technology forward, or will it be some other firm? In fact, going
forward, which will be more important, the augmented reality
technology or the content that can be accessed through that
technology?1
Many of the elements of strategy discussed in
this book are manifest in the Pokémon Go story.
Pokémon Go is the result of a collaboration
among several independent firms, including
Nintendo, the Pokémon Company, Google, and
Niantic Labs. These kinds of strategic alliances
are discussed in Chapter 11 of the book. The
importance of the Pokémon brand in helping
Pokémon Go grow is an example of the
importance of product differentiation, a strategy
discussed in Chapter 5 . Why multiple firms
were involved in investing in Niantic Labs can be
understood using the flexibility logic discussed in
Chapter 6 , and why Google decided to spin
Niantic Labs out of its organization can be
analyzed with the vertical integration
logic developed in Chapter 8 and the
diversification logic presented in Chapters 9
and 10 . Finally, whether Pokémon Go’s
advantage is likely to be sustainable is a
question that can be answered with the models
on internal strategic analysis presented in
Chapter 3 .

These and the other strategic management
theories and models discussed throughout this
book are, in the end, immensely practical. They
can be used to understand why some firms are
not able to survive, while others can survive and
even prosper. Understanding how to apply these
theories and models will help in choosing where
to work and how to be successful while at work.
Strategy and the Strategic
Management Process
Objective 1.1 Define strategy and describe the strategic
              management process.


Although most can agree that a firm’s ability to survive and prosper
depends on choosing and implementing a good strategy, there is
less agreement about what a strategy is and even less agreement
about what constitutes a good strategy. Indeed, there are almost as
many different definitions of these concepts as there are books
written about them.
Defining Strategy
In this book, a firm’s strategy is defined as its theory about how to
gain competitive advantages.2 A good strategy is a strategy that
generates such advantages. Pokémon Go’s theory of how to gain a
competitive advantage focused on leveraging the traditional brand
power of Pokémon with the new technological capabilities of
augmented reality—largely an example of a product differentiation
strategy discussed in Chapter 5 of this book.


Each of these theories—like all theories—is based on a set of
assumptions and hypotheses about the way competition in an
industry is likely to evolve and how that evolution can be exploited to
earn a profit. The greater the extent to which these assumptions and
hypotheses accurately reflect how competition in this industry
evolves, the more likely it is that a firm will gain a competitive
advantage from implementing its strategies. If these assumptions
and hypotheses turn out not to be accurate, then a firm’s strategies
are not likely to be a source of competitive advantage.


But here is the challenge. It is usually very difficult to predict how
competition in an industry will evolve, and so it is rarely possible to
know for sure that a firm is choosing the right strategy. Therefore, a
firm’s strategy is almost always a theory: It’s a firm’s best bet about
how competition is going to evolve and how that evolution can be
exploited for competitive advantage.
The Strategic Management
Process
Although it is usually difficult to know for sure that a firm is pursuing
the best strategy, it is possible to reduce the likelihood that mistakes
are being made. Research suggests that the best way to do this is
for a firm to choose its strategy carefully and systematically and to
follow the strategic management process. The strategic
management process is a sequential set of analyses and
choices that can increase the likelihood that a firm will choose a
good strategy; that is, a strategy that generates competitive
advantages. An example of the strategic management process is
presented in Figure 1.1 . Not surprisingly, much of this book is
organized around this strategic management process.




Figure 1.1 The Strategic Management Process
A Firm’s Mission
The strategic management process begins when a firm defines its
mission. A firm’s mission is its long-term purpose. Missions
define both what a firm aspires to be in the long run and what it
wants to avoid in the meantime. Missions are often written down in
the form of mission statements    .
Some Missions May Not Affect Firm
Performance
Most mission statements incorporate common elements. For
example, many define the businesses within which a firm will operate
—medical products for Johnson and Johnson; adhesives and
substrates for 3M—or they can very simply state how a firm will
compete in those businesses. Many even define the core values that
a firm espouses.

Indeed, mission statements often contain so many common
elements that some have questioned whether having a mission
statement even creates value for a firm.3 Moreover, even if a mission
statement does say something unique about a company, if that
mission statement does not influence behavior throughout an
organization, it is unlikely to have much impact on a firm’s actions.
For example, while Enron was engaging in wide ranging acts of
fraud4, it had a mission statement that emphasized the importance of
honesty and integrity.5 Research suggests that, on average, mission
statements do not affect a firm’s performance.
Some Missions Can Improve Firm
Performance
Despite these caveats, research has identified some firms whose
sense of purpose and mission permeates all that they do. These
firms have included, for example, 3M, IBM, Hewlett-Packard, and
Disney. Some of these visionary firms,       or firms whose mission is
central to all they do, have enjoyed long periods of high
performance.6 From 1926 through 1995, an investment of $1 in one
of these firms would have increased in value to $6,536. That same
dollar invested in an average firm over this same period would have
been worth $415 in 1995.


These visionary firms earned substantially higher returns than
average firms even though many of their mission statements suggest
that profit maximizing, although an important corporate objective, is
not their primary reason for existence. Rather, their primary reasons
for existence are typically reflected in a widely held set of values and
beliefs that inform day-to-day decision making. While, in other firms,
managers may be tempted to sacrifice such values and beliefs to
gain short-term advantages, in these special firms, the pressure for
short term performance is balanced by widespread commitment to
values and beliefs that focus more on a firm’s long-term
performance.7


Of course, that these firms had performed well for many decades
does not mean they will do so forever. Some previously identified
visionary firms have stumbled more recently, including American
Express, Ford, Hewlett-Packard, Motorola, and Sony. Some of these
financial problems may be attributable to the fact that these formally
mission-driven companies have lost focus on their mission.
Some Missions Can Hurt Firm Performance
Although some firms have used their missions to develop strategies
that create significant competitive advantages, missions can hurt a
firm’s performance as well. For example, sometimes a firm’s mission
will be very inwardly focused and defined only with reference to the
personal values and priorities of its founders or top managers,
independent of whether those values and priorities are consistent
with the economic realities facing a firm. Strategies derived from
such missions are not likely to be a source of competitive advantage.


Consider, for example, Yahoo. In 2008, Microsoft tried to buy Yahoo
for $31 per share, a deal worth, in total, $44.6 billion. This
represented a premium over Yahoo’s market price at the time. Yahoo
declined the offer, citing the strength of their global brand, recent
investments in its advertising platform, and their ongoing strategy in
concluding that Microsoft’s offer undervalued Yahoo. In short, Yahoo
remained committed to its mission and strategy, and remained
independent.

Over the next several years, Yahoo’s market value tumbled, reaching
a low of less than $10 per share—well below the $31 per share
Microsoft had offered. Finally, in 2013, Yahoo’s valuations rose to
equal what Microsoft had offered to buy it for in 2008.

But this valuation turned out to be difficult to maintain. While Yahoo
continued as an independent company, its value continued to fall.
Finally, in July of 2016, Verizon purchased Yahoo for $4.8 billion. In
other words, by keeping focused on its mission and strategy, Yahoo
destroyed almost $40 billion in value for its shareholders over an
eight-year period of time.8


Obviously, because a firm’s mission can help, hurt, or have no
impact on its performance, missions by themselves do not
necessarily lead a firm to choose and implement strategies that
generate competitive advantages. Indeed, as suggested in Figure
1.1   , while defining a firm’s mission is an important step in the
strategic management process, it is only the first step in that
process.


Objectives
Whereas a firm’s mission is a broad statement of its purpose and
values, its objectives are specific measurable targets a firm can
use to evaluate the extent to which it is realizing its mission. High-
quality objectives are tightly connected to elements of a firm’s
mission and are relatively easy to measure and track over time. Low-
quality objectives either do not exist or are not connected to
elements of a firm’s mission, are not quantitative, or are difficult to
measure or difficult to track over time. Obviously, low-quality
objectives cannot be used by management to evaluate how well a
mission is being realized. Indeed, one indication that a firm is not
that serious about realizing part of its mission statement is when
there are no objectives, or only low-quality objectives, associated
with that part of the mission.
External and Internal Analysis
The next two phases of the strategic management process—external
analysis and internal analysis—occur more or less simultaneously.
By conducting an external analysis , a firm identifies the critical
threats and opportunities in its competitive environment. It also
examines how competition in this environment is likely to evolve and
what implications that evolution has for the threats and opportunities
a firm is facing. A considerable literature on techniques for and
approaches to conducting external analysis has evolved over the
past several years. This literature is the primary subject matter of
Chapter 2     of this book.

Whereas external analysis focuses on the environmental threats and
opportunities facing a firm, internal analysis    helps a firm identify
its organizational strengths and weaknesses. It also helps a firm
understand which of its resources and capabilities are likely to be
sources of competitive advantage and which are less likely to be
sources of such advantages. Finally, internal analysis can be used
by firms to identify those areas of its organization that require
improvement and change. As with external analysis, a considerable
literature on techniques for and approaches to conducting internal
analysis has evolved over the past several years. This literature is
the primary subject matter of Chapter 3      of this book.
Strategic Choice
Armed with a mission, objectives, and completed external and
internal analyses, a firm is ready to make its strategic choices. That
is, a firm is ready to choose its theory of how to gain competitive
advantage.

The strategic choices available to firms fall into two large categories:
business-level strategies and corporate-level strategies. Business-
level strategies     are actions firms take to gain competitive
advantages in a single market or industry. These strategies are the
topic of Part 2    of this book and include cost leadership
(Chapter 4 ), product differentiation (Chapter 5 ), and
flexibility (Chapter 6 ). In addition, tacit collusion as a business
level strategy will be discussed in each chapter of this book in
Chapter 7    . Corporate-level strategies       are actions firms take
to gain competitive advantages by operating in multiple markets or
industries simultaneously. These strategies are the topic of Part 3
of this book. Common corporate-level strategies include vertical
integration strategies (Chapter 8    ), diversification
strategies (Chapters 9 and 10        ), strategic alliance
strategies (Chapter 11     ), and merger and acquisition
strategies (Chapter 12     ).


Obviously, the details of choosing specific strategies can be quite
complex, and a discussion of these details will be delayed until later
in the book. However, the underlying logic of strategic choice is not
complex. Based on the strategic management process, the objective
when making a strategic choice is to choose a strategy that: (1)
supports the firm’s mission; (2) is consistent with a firm’s objectives;
(3) exploits opportunities in a firm’s environment with a firm’s
strengths; and (4) neutralizes threats in a firm’s environment while
avoiding a firm’s weaknesses. If this strategy is implemented—the
last step of the strategic management process—a strategy that
meets these criteria is very likely to be a source of competitive
advantage for a firm.
Strategy Implementation
Of course, simply choosing a strategy means nothing if that strategy
is not implemented. Strategy implementation occurs when a firm
adopts organizational policies and practices that are consistent with
its strategy. Three specific organizational policies and practices are
particularly important in implementing a strategy: (1) a firm’s formal
organizational structure; (2) its formal and informal management
control systems; and (3) its employee compensation policies. A firm
that adopts an organizational structure, management controls, and
compensation policy that are consistent with and reinforce its
strategies is more likely to be able to implement those strategies
than a firm that adopts an organizational structure, management
controls, and compensation policy that are inconsistent with its
strategies. Specific organizational structures, management controls,
and compensation policies used to implement the business-level
strategies are discussed in Part Two of this book; ways that firms
can implement corporate strategies are discussed in Part
Three. Normally, the process of choosing and implementing a
strategy are discussed in the same chapter. However, because so
much has been written about implementing a diversification strategy,
choosing this strategy is discussed in Chapter 9     while
implementing it is discussed in Chapter 10     .
What is Competitive Advantage?
Objective 1.2 Define competitive advantage and explain its
               relationship to economic value creation.

Of course, the ultimate objective of the strategic management
process is to enable a firm to choose and implement a strategy that
generates a competitive advantage. But what is a competitive
advantage? In general, a firm has a competitive advantage
when it can create more economic value than rival firms. Economic
value is simply the difference between what customers are willing
to pay for a firm’s products or services and the total cost of
producing these products or services. Thus, the size of a firm’s
competitive advantage is the difference between the economic value
a firm can create and the economic value its rivals can create.9


Consider the two firms presented in Figure 1.2   . Both these firms
compete in the same market for the same customers. However, Firm
I generates $180 of economic value each time it sells a product or
service, whereas Firm II generates $150 of economic value each
time it sells a product or service. Because Firm I generates more
economic value each time it sells a product or service, it has a
competitive advantage over Firm II. The size of this competitive
advantage is equal to the difference in the economic value these two
firms create, in this case, $30($180 − $150 = $30).
Figure 1.2 The Sources of a Firm’s Competitive Advantage


However, as shown in the figure, Firm I’s advantage may come from
different sources. For example, it might be the case that Firm I’s
customers are willing to pay more for its products or services than
are Firm II’s customers. In panel A of the figure, Firm I’s customers
are willing to pay $230 for the benefits they associate with Firm I’s
products or services, whereas Firm II’s customers are only willing to
pay $200 for its products or services. Thus, even though both firms’
costs are the same (equal to $50 per unit sold), Firm I creates more
economic value ($230 − $50 = $180) than Firm II
($200 − $50 = $150).      Indeed, it is possible for Firm I, in this
situation, to have higher costs than Firm II and still create more
economic value than Firm II if these higher costs are offset by the
willingness of Firm I’s customers to pay more for its products or
services.


Alternatively, as shown in panel B of the figure, the customers of
these two firms may be willing to pay the same for Firm I and II’s
products or services (equal to $210 in the figure) but these firms may
have different costs. If Firm I’s costs per unit are only $30, it will
generate $180 worth of economic value ($210 − $30 = $180). If
Firm II’s costs are $60, it will generate only $150 of economic value
($210 − $60 = $150).    Indeed, it might be possible for Firm I’s
customers to have a lower willingness to pay than Firm II’s
customers, and Firm I can still create more economic value than
Firm II. This is possible as long as Firm I’s disadvantage in customer
willingness to pay is more than offset by its cost advantage.


A firm’s competitive advantage can be temporary or sustained. As
summarized in Figure 1.3 , a temporary competitive
advantage is a competitive advantage that lasts for a very short
time. A sustained competitive advantage , in contrast, can last
much longer. How long sustained competitive advantages can last is
discussed in the Research Made Relevant feature. Firms that
create the same economic value as their rivals experience
competitive parity . Finally, firms that generate less economic
value than their rivals have a competitive disadvantage . Not
surprisingly, competitive disadvantages can be either temporary or
sustained, depending on the duration of the disadvantage.




Figure 1.3 Types of Competitive Advantage
R E S E A R C H M A D E R E L E VA N T
How Sustainable Are Competitive Advantages?


For some time, economists have been interested in how long
firms can sustain competitive advantages. Traditional
economic theory predicts that such advantages should be
short-lived in highly competitive markets. This theory
suggests that any competitive advantages gained by a
particular firm will quickly be identified and imitated by other
firms, ensuring competitive parity in the long run. However, in
real life, competitive advantages often last longer than
traditional economic theory predicts.

One of the first scholars to examine this issue was Dennis
Mueller. Mueller divided a sample of 472 firms into eight
categories, depending on their level of performance in 1949.
He then examined the impact of a firm’s initial performance
on its subsequent performance. The traditional economic
hypothesis was that all firms in the sample would converge on
an average level of performance. This did not occur. Indeed,
firms that were performing well in an earlier period tended to
perform well in later time periods, and firms that performed
poorly in an earlier period tended to perform poorly in later
time periods as well.

Geoffrey Waring followed up on Mueller’s work by explaining
why competitive advantages seem to persist longer in some
industries than in others. Waring found that, among other
factors, firms that operate in industries that: (1) are
informationally complex; (2) require customers to know a
great deal to use an industry’s products; (3) require a great
deal of research and development; and (4) have significant
economies of scale are more likely to have sustained
competitive advantages compared to firms that operate in
industries without these attributes.

Peter Roberts studied the persistence of profitability in one
particular industry: the U.S. pharmaceutical industry. Roberts
found that not only can firms sustain competitive advantages
in this industry, but that the ability to do so is almost entirely
attributable to the firms’ capacity to innovate by bringing out
new and powerful drugs.

The most recent work in this tradition was published by Anita
McGahan and Michael Porter. They showed that both high
and low performance can persist for some time. Persistent
high performance is related to attributes of the industry within
which a firm operates and the corporation within which a
business unit functions. In contrast, persistent low
performance was caused by attributes of a business unit
itself.

In many ways, the difference between traditional economics
research and strategic management research is that the
former attempts to explain why competitive advantages
should not persist, whereas the latter attempts to explain
when they can. Thus far, most empirical research suggests
that firms, in at least some settings, can sustain competitive
advantages10
Sources: D. C. Mueller (1977). “The persistence of profits above the norm.” Economica, 44, pp. 369–380;

P. W. Roberts (1999). “Product innovation, product-market competition, and persistent profitability in the

U.S. pharmaceutical industry.” Strategic Management Journal, 20, pp. 655–670; G. F. Waring (1996).

“Industry differences in the persistence of firm-specific returns.” The American Economic Review, 86, pp.

1253–1265; A. McGahan and M. Porter (2003). “The emergence and sustainability of abnormal profits.”

Strategic Organization, 1(1), pp. 79–108.
The Strategic Management
Process, Revisited
With this description of the strategic management process now
complete, it is possible to redraw the process, as depicted in Figure
1.1   , to incorporate the various options a firm faces as it chooses
and implements its strategy. This is done in Figure 1.4    . Figure
1.4   is the organizing framework that will be used throughout this
book. An alternative way of characterizing the strategic management
process—the business model canvas—is described in the Strategy
in Depth    feature.




Figure 1.4 Organizing Framework
Measuring Competitive Advantage
Objective 1.3 Describe two different approaches to measuring competitive advantage.


A firm has a competitive advantage when it creates more economic value than its rivals. Economic value
is the difference between what customers are willing to pay for a firm’s products or services and the full
cost of producing and selling these products or services. These are deceptively simple definitions.
However, these concepts are not always easy to measure directly. For example, the benefits of a firm’s
products or services are always a matter of customer perception, and perceptions are not easy to
measure. Also, the total costs associated with producing a particular product or service may not always
be easy to identify or associate with a particular product or service. Despite the very real challenges
associated with measuring a firm’s competitive advantage, two approaches have emerged. The first
estimates a firm’s competitive advantage by examining its accounting performance; the second
examines a firm’s economic performance. These approaches are discussed in the following sections.
Accounting Measures of Competitive Advantage
A firm’s accounting performance          is a measure of its competitive advantage calculated by using
information from a firm’s published profit and loss and balance sheet statements. A firm’s profit and loss
and balance sheet statements, in turn, are typically created using widely accepted accounting standards
and principles. The application of these standards and principles makes it possible to compare the
accounting performance of one firm to the accounting performance of other firms, even if those firms are
not in the same industry. However, to the extent that these standards and principles are not applied in
generating a firm’s accounting statements or to the extent that different firms use different accounting
standards and principles in generating their statements, it can be difficult to compare the accounting
performance of firms. These issues can be particularly challenging when comparing the performance of
firms in different countries around the world.


One way to use a firm’s accounting statements to measure its competitive advantage is with accounting
ratios. Accounting ratios are simply numbers taken from a firm’s financial statements that are
manipulated in ways that describe various aspects of a firm’s performance. Some of the most common
accounting ratios that can be used to characterize a firm’s performance are presented in Table 1.1 .
These measures of firm accounting performance can be grouped into four categories: (1) profitability
ratios   , or ratios with some measure of profit in the numerator and some measure of firm size or
assets in the denominator; (2) liquidity ratios , or ratios that focus on the ability of a firm to meet its
short-term financial obligations; (3) leverage ratios , or ratios that focus on the level of a firm’s
financial flexibility, including its ability to obtain more debt; and (4) activity ratios   , or ratios that focus
on the level of activity in a firm’s business.
Table 1.1 Common Ratios to Measure a Firm’s Accounting Performance
S T R AT E G Y I N D E P T H




The Business Model Canvas


Recently, some strategic management scholars have developed an alternative approach to
characterizing the strategic management process. Rather than starting with mission statements
and objectives and then proceeding through the different kinds of analyses that need to be done
to choose and implement a strategy, this approach starts by identifying activities that have an
impact on the ability of a firm to create and appropriate economic value and then specifying
exactly how a particular firm accomplishes these activities. The set of activities that a firm
engages in to create and appropriate economic value, in this approach, is called a firm’s
business model .

Probably the most influential approach to identifying a firm’s business model was developed by
Alex Osterwalder and Yves Pigneur in their book Business Model Generator. In the book, a
generic business model—not unrelated to the generic value chains that will be introduced in
Chapter 3 of this book—is presented. Because this approach enables managers to see the
entire landscape of their business in a single page, this model is called the business model
canvas. This canvas is reproduced in this feature.

The center of the canvas is dominated by a box labeled Value Propositions. A firm’s value
propositions are statements about how it will attempt to create value for its customers, customer
problems it is trying to solve through its business operations, which customers it will focus on,
and so forth. Identifying a firm’s value propositions is very close to identifying its strategy, as
presented in Figure 1.4 .
Once a firm’s value propositions are identified, they have important implications for the Key
Activities a firm needs to engage in, the Key Resources it needs to control to engage in those
activities, and the Key Partners it needs to have to gain access to those resources. The value
propositions also help determine critical Customer Relationships, the Channels a firm needs to
use to reach those critical customers, and which Customer Segments a firm will address with its
products or services.

If a firm’s key activities, resources, and partners, on the one hand, and its customer relationships,
channels, and segments, on the other hand, all support the execution of its value propositions,
then these activities—collectively—will improve a firm’s cost structure and revenue streams.
Consistent with the definitions presented in this chapter, the difference between a firm’s revenues
and costs is a measure of the economic value created by a firm.

Different business models—as summarized by the business model canvas—have been given
labels to help distinguish them. For example, a “bricks and clicks” business model (where online
retail is integrated with off-line retail) implies a very different set of business activities than a
“franchise” business model (where quasi-independent entrepreneurs own and operate retail
outlets), which are also different from a “direct” retail model (where firms eliminate in-process
inventory by having customers order each product sold), and so forth.

Some scholars have objected to the introduction of the canvas, arguing that it does not add
anything fundamental to our understanding of the strategic management process. Others have
suggested that some important components of that process—including, for example, organizing
to implement a firm’s strategy—are left out of the canvas. Others argue that competition is not
well represented in the canvas—if large numbers of competing firms all adopt the same business
model canvas, how is that canvas supposed to enhance the competitive position of any one of
those firms? On the other hand, the canvas is a convenient way to summarize a wide variety of
firm activities, how those activities are related to one another, and how they ultimately affect a
firm’s costs and revenues. And while the framework presented in Figure 1.4                                                            will not be used to
organize the material in the rest of this book, insights from the canvas approach will be
incorporated throughout the book as appropriate11.

Sources: A. Osterwalder and Y. Pigneur (2010). Business Model Generator. NY: Wiley. G. George and A. J. Bock (2011). The business model in practice and its

implications for entrepreneurial research. Entrepreneurship: Theory and Practice, 35(1), 83–111. C. Zott, R. Amit, and L. Massa. (2010). The Business Model:

Theoretical Roots, Recent Development, and Future Research. Working Paper 862, IESE, Barcelona, Spain.
Of course, these ratios, by themselves, say very little about a firm. To determine how a firm is
performing, its accounting ratios must be compared with some standard. In general, that standard is the
average of accounting ratios of other firms in the same industry. Using ratio analysis, a firm earns
above-average accounting performance when its performance is greater than the industry
average. Such firms typically have competitive advantages, sustained or otherwise. A firm earns
average accounting performance when its performance is equal to the industry average. These
firms generally enjoy only competitive parity. A firm earns below-average accounting performance
when its performance is less than the industry average. These firms generally experience competitive
disadvantages.


Consider, for example, the performance of Apple Inc. Apple’s financial statements for 2015 and 2016
are summarized in Table 1.2 . Losses in this table would be presented in parentheses. Several ratio
measures of accounting performance are calculated for Apple in these two years in Table 1.3 .
Table 1.2 Apple Inc.’s Financial Statements for 2016 and 2015 (numbers in millions of dollars)
Table 1.3 Some Accounting Ratios for Apple Inc. in 2016 and 2015


Apple’s sales decreased from 2015 to 2016, from just under $234 billion to $215.6 billion. Apples
profitability also fell over this period, with ROA dropping from .18 to .14. However, its gross margins
remained almost constant, at .4 and .39 respectively. This suggests that while Apple’s sales decreased,
it did not engage in significant price cutting or shift its product mix to lower priced items. Lower sales
revenues then generated lower levels of profit. Also, both Apple’s Current and Quick ratios increased,
suggesting that it increased its ability to meet any short-term obligations it might face. Finally, a nearly
constant debt to total assets ratio suggests that Apple did not take on any additional long term liabilities
from 2015 to 2016.


Overall, the information in Tables 1.2     and 1.3    suggests that Apple Inc., in 2015 and 2016, was,
financially speaking, very healthy, although 2015 was a better year than 2016.
Economic Measures of Competitive Advantage
The great advantage of accounting measures of competitive advantage is that they are relatively easy to
compute. All publicly traded firms must make their accounting statements available to the public. Even
privately owned firms will typically release some information about their accounting performance. From
these statements, it is quite easy to calculate various accounting ratios. One can learn a great deal
about a firm’s competitive position by comparing these ratios to industry averages.


However, accounting measures of competitive advantage have at least one significant limitation. Earlier,
economic profit was defined as the difference between what customers are willing to pay for a firm’s
products or services and the cost of producing and selling those products or services. However, one
important component of cost is typically not included in most accounting measures of competitive
advantage: the cost of the capital a firm employs to produce and sell its products or services. The cost
of capital is the rate of return that a firm promises to pay its suppliers of capital to induce them to
invest in the firm. Once these investments are made, a firm can use this capital to produce and sell
products and services. However, a firm must provide the promised return to its sources of capital if it
expects to obtain more investment capital in the future. Economic measures of competitive
advantage compare a firm’s level of return to its cost of capital instead of to the average level of
return in the industry.


Generally, there are two broad categories of sources of capital: debt (capital from banks and
bondholders) and equity (capital from individuals and institutions that purchase a firm’s stock). The
cost of debt is equal to the interest that a firm must pay its debt holders (adjusted for taxes) to
induce those debt holders to lend money to a firm. The cost of equity is equal to the rate of return a
firm must promise its equity holders to induce these individuals and institutions to invest in a firm. A
firm’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC) is simply the percentage of a firm’s total capital
which is debt, times the cost of debt, plus the percentage of a firm’s total capital that is equity, times the
cost of equity. Mathematically, a firm’s WACC is:

           WACC = (market value of a debt/firm's market value) × after tax cost                           (1.1)
           of debt + (market value of equity/firm's market value) × cost of equity




The process for estimating these elements of a firm’s WACC is discussed in any corporate finance text.
The cost of debt is simply the interest a firm must pay on its debt. The after-tax cost of debt is
equal to the cost of debt multiplied times one minus a firm’s marginal tax rate (assuming that the interest
on debt is tax deductible). The cost of equity, on the other hand, is equal to the return a firm promises
to pay its equity holders for investing in a firm’s equity. Usually, the cost of equity is estimated using the
Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) which can be written as:

Cost of Equity = Risk Free Rate of Return + β(Expected Market Return − Risk Free Rate                     (1.2)
In this equation, the risk-free rate of return equals the interest earned on a risk-free asset (typically
an investment in a government bond), the expected market return is the return an investor expects
to receive from investing in a fully diversified portfolio of stocks, and β is how much riskier a particular
firm’s stock is, compared to a fully diversified portfolio. For many publicly traded firms, β is available
online.

Conceptually, a firm’s cost of capital is the level of performance a firm must attain if it is to satisfy the
economic objectives of two of its critical stakeholders: debt holders and equity holders. A firm that earns
above its cost of capital is likely to be able to attract additional capital because debt holders and equity
holders will scramble to make additional funds available for this firm. Such a firm is said to be earning
above-normal economic performance and will be able to use its access to cheap capital to grow
and expand its business. In general, firms with competitive advantages earn above normal economic
performance.


A firm that earns its cost of capital is said to have normal economic performance           . This level of
performance is said to be “normal” because this is the level of performance that most of a firm’s equity
and debt holders expect. Firms that have normal economic performance can gain access to the capital
they need to survive, although they are not prospering. Growth opportunities may be somewhat limited
for these firms. In general, firms with competitive parity usually have normal economic performance.


A firm that earns less than its cost of capital is in the process of liquidating. Below-normal economic
performance implies that a firm’s debt and equity holders will be looking for alternative ways to invest
their money, someplace where they can earn at least what they expect to earn; that is, normal economic
performance. Unless a firm with below normal performance changes, its long-term viability will come into
question. Obviously, firms that have a competitive disadvantage generally have below normal economic
performance.


Measuring a firm’s performance relative to its cost of capital has several advantages for strategic
analysis. Foremost among these is the notion that a firm that earns at least its cost of capital is
satisfying two of its most important stakeholders: debt holders and equity holders. Despite the
advantages of comparing a firm’s performance to its cost of capital, this approach has some important
limitations as well. For example, it can sometimes be difficult to calculate a firm’s cost of capital. This is
especially true if a firm is privately held —that is, if it has stock that is not traded on public stock
markets or if it is a division of a larger company. In these situations, it may be necessary to use
accounting ratios to measure a firm’s performance. Moreover, some have suggested that although
accounting measures of competitive advantage understate the importance of a firm’s equity and debt
holders in evaluating a firm’s performance, economic measures of competitive advantage exaggerate
the importance of these two particular stakeholders, often to the disadvantage of other stakeholders in a
firm. These issues are discussed in more detail in the Ethics and Strategy feature.
E T H I C S A N D S T R AT E G Y




Stockholders Versus Stakeholders


Considerable debate exists about the role of a firm’s equity and debt holders versus its other
stakeholders in defining and measuring a firm’s performance. These other stakeholders
include a firm’s suppliers, its customers, its employees, and the communities within which it does
business. Like equity and debt holders, these other stakeholders make investments in a firm.
They, too, expect some compensation for making these investments.

On the one hand, some argue that if a firm maximizes the wealth of its equity holders, it will
automatically satisfy all of its other stakeholders. This view of the firm depends on what is called
the residual claimants view                          of equity holders. This view is that equity holders only receive
payment on their investment in a firm after all legitimate claims by a firm’s other stakeholders are
satisfied. Thus, a firm’s equity holders, in this view, only receive payment on their investments
after the firm’s employees are compensated, its suppliers are paid, its customers are satisfied,
and its obligations to the communities within which it does business have been met. By
maximizing returns to its equity holders, a firm is ensuring that its other stakeholders are fully
compensated for investing in a firm.

On the other hand, some argue that the interests of equity holders and a firm’s other
stakeholders often collide and that a firm that maximizes the wealth of its equity holders does not
necessarily satisfy its other stakeholders. For example, whereas a firm’s customers may want it
to sell higher-quality products at lower prices, a firm’s equity holders may want it to sell low-
quality products at higher prices; this obviously would increase the amount of money left over to
pay off a firm’s equity holders. Also, whereas a firm’s employees may want it to adopt policies
that lead to steady performance over long periods of time—because this will lead to stable
employment—a firm’s equity holders may be more interested in its maximizing its short-term
profitability, even if this hurts employment stability. The interests of equity holders and the
broader community may also clash, especially when it is very costly for a firm to engage in
environmentally friendly behaviors that could reduce its short-term performance.

This debate manifests itself in a variety of ways. For example, many groups that oppose the
globalization of the U.S. economy do so on the basis that firms make production, marketing, and
other strategic choices in ways that maximize profits for equity holders, often to the detriment of a
firm’s other stakeholders. These people are concerned about the effects of globalization on
workers, on the environment, and on the cultures in the developing economies where global firms
sometimes locate their manufacturing and other operations. Managers in global firms respond by
saying that they have a responsibility to maximize the wealth of their equity holders. Given the
passions that surround this debate, it is unlikely that these issues will be resolved soon12

Sources: T. Copeland, T. Koller, and J. Murrin (1995). Valuation: Measuring and managing the value of companies. New York: Wiley; L. Donaldson (1990). “The

ethereal hand: Organizational economics and management theory.” Academy of Review, 15, pp. 369–381; and E. Freeman, J. Harrison, A. Wicks, B. Parmar, and S.

de Colle (2010 Stakeholder Theory: The State of the Art. Cambridge: Cambridge.
The Relationship Between Economic and
Accounting Performance Measures
The correlation between economic and accounting measures of competitive advantage is high. That is,
firms that perform well using one of these measures usually perform well using the other. Conversely,
firms that do poorly using one of these measures normally do poorly using the other. Thus, the
relationships among competitive advantage, accounting performance, and economic performance
depicted in Figure 1.5    generally hold.




Figure 1.5 Competitive Advantage and Firm Performance


However, it is possible for a firm to have above-average accounting performance and simultaneously
have below normal economic performance. This could happen, for example, when a firm is not earning
its cost of capital but has above industry average accounting performance. Also, it is possible for a firm
to have below-average accounting performance and above normal economic performance. This could
happen when a firm has a very low cost of capital and is earning at a rate more than this cost, but still
below the industry average.
Emergent Versus Intended
Strategies
Objective 1.4 Explain the difference between emergent and
              intended strategies.


The simplest way of thinking about a firm’s strategy is to assume that
firms choose and implement their strategies exactly as described by
the strategic management process in Figure 1.1 . That is, they
begin with a well-defined mission and objectives, they engage in
external and internal analyses, they make their strategic choices,
and then they implement their strategies. And there is no doubt that
this describes the process for choosing and implementing a strategy
in many firms.


For example, FedEx, a world leader in the overnight delivery
business, entered this industry with a very well-developed theory
about how to gain competitive advantages in this business. Indeed,
Fred Smith, the founder of FedEx (originally known as Federal
Express), first articulated this theory as a student in a term paper for
an undergraduate business class at Yale University. Legend has it
that he received only a “C” on the paper, but the company that was
founded on the theory of competitive advantage in the overnight
delivery business developed in that paper has done extremely well.
Founded in 1971, FedEx had 2016 sales just over $50 billion and
over 400,000 employees.13


Other firms have also begun operations with a well-defined, well-
formed strategy but have found it necessary to modify this strategy
so much once it is implemented in the marketplace that it bears little
resemblance to the theory with which the firm started. Emergent
strategies are theories of how to gain competitive advantage in
an industry that emerge over time or that have been radically
reshaped once they are initially implemented.14


Several well-known firms have strategies that are, at least partly,
emergent. For example, J&J was originally a supplier of antiseptic
gauze and medical plasters. It had no consumer business at all.
Then, in response to complaints about irritation caused by some of
its medical plasters, J&J began enclosing a small packet of talcum
powder with each of the medical plasters it sold. Soon customers
were asking to purchase the talcum powder by itself, and the
company introduced “Johnson’s Toilet and Baby Powder.” Later, an
employee invented a ready-to-use bandage for his wife. It seems
she often cut herself while using knives in the kitchen. When J&J
marketing managers learned of this invention, they decided to
introduce it into the marketplace. J&J’s Band-Aid products have
since become the largest-selling brand category at J&J. Overall,
J&J’s intended strategy was to compete in the medical products
market, but its emergent consumer products strategies now generate
more than 40 percent of total corporate sales.
Another firm with what turns out to be an emergent strategy is the
Marriott Corporation. Marriott was originally in the restaurant
business. In the late 1930s, Marriott owned and operated eight
restaurants. However, one of these restaurants was close to a
Washington, D.C., airport. Managers at this restaurant noticed that
airline passengers would come into the restaurant to purchase food
to eat on their trip. J. Willard Marriott, the founder of the Marriott
Corporation, noticed this trend and negotiated a deal with Eastern
Airlines whereby Marriott’s restaurant would deliver prepackaged
lunches directly to Eastern’s planes. This arrangement was later
extended to include American Airlines. Over time, providing food
service to airlines became a major business segment for Marriott.
Although Marriott’s initial intended strategy was to operate in the
restaurant business, it became engaged in the emergent food
service business at more than 100 airports throughout the world.15


Of course, one might argue that emergent strategies are only
important when a firm fails to implement the strategic management
process effectively. After all, if this process is implemented
effectively, then would it ever be necessary to fundamentally alter the
strategies that a firm has chosen?


In reality, it will often be the case that at the time a firm chooses its
strategies, some of the information needed to complete the strategic
management process may simply not be available. As suggested
earlier, in this setting a firm simply must make its “best bet” about
how competition in an industry is likely to emerge. In such a
situation, a firm’s ability to change its strategies quickly to respond to
emergent trends in an industry may be as important a source of
competitive advantage as the ability to complete the strategic
management process. For all these reasons, emergent strategies
may be particularly important for entrepreneurial firms.
Why you Need to Know About
Strategy
Objective 1.5 Discuss why it is important for you to study strategy
              and the strategic management process.


At first glance, it may not be obvious why students would need to
know about strategy and the strategic management process. After
all, the process of choosing and implementing a strategy is normally
the responsibility of senior managers in a firm, and most students
are unlikely to be senior managers in large corporations until many
years after graduation. Why study strategy and the strategic
management process now?

In fact, there are at least three very compelling reasons why it is
important to study strategy and the strategic management process
now. First, it can give you the tools you need to evaluate the
strategies of firms that may employ you. We have already seen how
a firm’s strategy can have a huge impact on its competitive
advantage. Your career opportunities in a firm are largely determined
by that firm’s competitive advantage. Thus, in choosing a place to
begin or continue your career, understanding a firm’s theory of how it
is going to gain a competitive advantage can be essential in
evaluating the career opportunities in a firm. Firms with strategies
that are unlikely to be a source of competitive advantage will rarely
provide the same career opportunities as firms with strategies that
do generate such advantages. Being able to distinguish between
these types of strategies can be very important in your career
choices.


Second, once you are working for a firm, understanding that firm’s
strategies, and your role in implementing those strategies, can be
very important for your personal success. It will often be the case
that expectations of how you perform your function in a firm will
change, depending on the strategies a firm is pursuing. For
example, as we will see in Part 2 of this book, the accounting
function plays a very different role in a firm pursuing a cost
leadership strategy versus a product differentiation strategy.
Marketing and manufacturing also play very different roles in these
two types of strategies. Your effectiveness in a firm can be reduced
by doing accounting, marketing, and manufacturing as if your firm
were pursuing a cost leadership strategy when it is actually pursuing
a product differentiation strategy.


Finally, although it is true that strategic choices are generally limited
to very experienced senior managers in large organizations, in
smaller and entrepreneurial firms many employees end up being
involved in the strategic management process. If you choose to work
for one of these smaller or entrepreneurial firms—even if it is not
right after graduation—you could very easily find yourself to be part
of the strategic management team, implementing the strategic
management process and choosing which strategies this firm should
implement. In this setting, a familiarity with the essential concepts
that underlie the choice and implementation of a strategy may turn
out to be very helpful.


More broadly, the study of strategy and the strategic management
process will help you develop a set of skills that will be helpful, no
matter what your employment situation may be. For example, as you
read the theories and models in the text and apply them to the
analysis of cases, you will develop business communication skills
with your classmates and your instructor as you try to convince them
that your point of view is correct. You will have the opportunity to
develop your critical thinking skills as you take the theories and
models presented in this book and apply them to develop points of
view about the cases you analyze. The cases are full of both
qualitative and quantitative data. Analyzing them will enhance your
data literacy. And finally, you will be able to confront some of the
ethical issues in business, since each chapter includes a feature on
ethics and strategy. Thus, in addition to learning about strategy and
the strategic management process, the topics covered in this book
will also increase your overall business knowledge, and help
enhance your success in whatever career you choose.
Summary
A firm’s strategy is its theory of how to gain competitive advantages.
These theories, like all theories, are based on assumptions and
hypotheses about how competition in an industry is likely to evolve.
When those assumptions and hypotheses are consistent with the
actual evolution of competition in an industry, a firm’s strategy is
more likely to be able to generate a competitive advantage.

One way that a firm can choose its strategies is through the strategic
management process. This process is a set of analyses and
decisions that increase the likelihood that a firm will be able to
choose a “good” strategy, that is, a strategy that will lead to a
competitive advantage.

The strategic management process begins when a firm identifies its
mission, or its long-term purpose. This mission is often written down
in the form of a mission statement. Mission statements, by
themselves, can have no impact on performance, can enhance a
firm’s performance, or can hurt a firm’s performance. Objectives are
measurable milestones firms use to evaluate whether they are
accomplishing their missions. External and internal analyses are the
processes through which a firm identifies its environmental threats
and opportunities and organizational strengths and weaknesses.
Armed with these analyses, it is possible for a firm to engage in
strategic choice. Strategies can be classified into two categories:
business-level strategies (including cost leadership, product
differentiation, flexibility, and tacit collusion) and corporate-level
strategies (including vertical integration, strategic alliances,
diversification, and mergers and acquisitions). Strategy
implementation follows strategic choice and involves choosing
organizational structures, management control policies, and
compensation schemes that support a firm’s strategies.


The ultimate objective of the strategic management process is the
realization of competitive advantage. A firm has a competitive
advantage if it is creating more economic value than its rivals.
Economic value is defined as the difference between a customer’s
willingness to pay for a firm’s products or services and the total
economic cost of developing and selling that product or service.
Competitive advantages can be temporary or sustained. Competitive
parity exists when a firm creates the same economic value as its
rivals. A competitive disadvantage exists when a firm creates less
economic value than its rivals, and it can be either temporary or
sustained.

Two popular measures of a firm’s competitive advantage are
accounting performance and economic performance. Accounting
performance measures competitive advantage using various ratios
calculated from a firm’s profit and loss and balance sheet
statements. A firm’s accounting performance is compared with the
average level of accounting performance in a firm’s industry.
Economic performance compares a firm’s level of return with its cost
of capital. A firm’s cost of capital is the rate of return it had to
promise to pay to its debt and equity investors to induce them to
invest in the firm.


Although many firms use the strategic management process to
choose and implement strategies, not all strategies are chosen this
way. Some strategies emerge over time, as firms respond to
unanticipated changes in the structure of competition in an industry.


Students need to understand strategy and the strategic management
process for at least three reasons. First, it can help in deciding where
to work. Second, once you have a job it can help you to be
successful in that job. Finally, if you have a job in a small or
entrepreneurial firm you may become involved in strategy and the
strategic management process from the very beginning.




       MyLab Management
       Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management to
       complete the problems marked with this icon .
Challenge Questions
   1.1. Some firms publicize their corporate mission statements
   by including them in annual reports, on company letterheads,
   and in corporate advertising. What, if anything, does this
   practice say about the ability of these mission statements to
   be sources of sustained competitive advantage for a firm?
       1.2. Why would including a corporate mission statement
   on company letterhead or in corporate advertising be seen as
   a source of sustained competitive advantage?
   1.3. Little empirical evidence indicates that having a formal,
   written mission statement improves a firm’s performance. Yet
   many firms spend a great deal of time and money developing
   mission statements. Why?
   1.4. Explain if it is possible to distinguish between an
   emergent strategy and an ad hoc rationalization of a firm’s
   past decisions.
   1.5. Both external and internal analyses are important in the
   strategic management process. Is the order in which these
   analyses are conducted important?
   1.6. If the order of analyses is important, which should come
   first: external analysis or internal analysis?
   1.7. Concerning external analysis and internal analysis, if the
   order of analyses is not important, why not?
   1.8. Will a firm that has a sustained competitive disadvantage
   necessarily go out of business?
1.9. Will a firm with below average accounting performance
over a long period necessarily go out of business?
1.10. Will a firm with below normal economic performance
over a long period necessarily go out of business?
1.11. Can more than one firm have a competitive advantage
in an industry at the same time?
  1.12. Is it possible for a firm to simultaneously have a
competitive advantage and a competitive disadvantage?
Problem Set
  1.13. Write objectives for each of the following mission
  statements.
      a. We will be a leader in pharmaceutical innovation.
      b. Customer satisfaction is our primary goal.
      c. We promise on-time delivery.
      d. Product quality is our first priority.

  1.14. Rewrite each of the following objectives to make them
  more helpful in guiding a firm’s strategic management
  process.
      a. We will introduce five new drugs.
      b. We will understand our customers’ needs.
      c. Almost all of our products will be delivered on time.
      d. The number of defects in our products will fall.

  1.15. Do firms with the following financial results have below-
  normal, normal, or above-normal economic performance?
      a. ROA = 14.3%, WACC = 12.8%
      b. ROA = 4.3%, WACC = 6.7%
      c. ROA = 6.5%, WACC = 9.2%
      d. ROA = 8.3%, WACC = 8.3%


  1.16. Do these same firms have below-average, average, or
  above-average accounting performance?
    a.   ROA = 14.3%, Industry Avg. ROA = 15.2%

    b.   ROA = 4.3%, Industry Avg. ROA = 4.1%

    c. ROA    = 6.5%, Industry Avg. ROA = 6.1%

    d. ROA    = 8.3%, Industry Avg. ROA = 9.4%




1.17. Is it possible for a firm to simultaneously earn above-
normal economic returns and below average accounting
returns? What about below-normal economic returns and
above-average accounting returns? Why or why not? If this
can occur, which measure of performance is more reliable:
economic performance or accounting performance? Explain.
1.18. Examine the following corporate Web sites and
determine if the strategies pursued by these firms were
emergent, deliberate, or both emergent and deliberate. Justify
your answer with facts from the Web sites.
    a. www.walmart.com
    b. www.homedepot.com
     c. www.cardinal.com


1.19. Using the information provided, calculate this firm’s
ROA, ROE, gross profit margin, and quick ratio. If this firm’s
WACC is 6.6 percent and the average firm in its industry has
an ROA of 8 percent, is this firm earning above or below
normal economic performance and above- or below-average
accounting performance?
MyLab Management
Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management for
Auto-graded writing questions as well as the following
Assisted-graded writing questions:


         1.20. Describe what visionary firms may do
      to earn substantially higher returns than average
      firms.
         1.21. What is the relationship between a
      firm’s business model and its value proposition?
End Notes
1    Michael McWhertor “Nintendo, Google, and Pokemon Company Invest in Pokemon
Go Developer,” Polygon, Vox Media, retrieved October 15, 2015; “Company History: The
Pokemon Company,” retrieved July 21, 2014; “Google April Fools Prank Puts Pokemon in
the Real World,” CNET, retrieved July 8, 2016; Dean Takahashi, “Pokemon Go Chief
Promises Player Battles, Live Events, More Creatures, and Stable Servers,” VentureBeat,
retrieved September 15, 2016; Don Reisigner, “Here’s How Apple Could Generate $3 Billion
on Pokemon Go,” Fotune.com, retrieved on November 1, 2016; Walter Chen, “How
Pokemon Go Is Driving Insane Amounts of Sales at Small, Local Businesses,” Inc.com,
retrieved November 1, 2016; Rafi Letzter, “Pokemon Go Players Have Walked Far Enough
to Reach the Sun from Neptune,” Uk.businessinsder.com, retrieved November 1, 2016,
2    This approach to defining strategy was first suggested in Drucker, P. (1994). “The
theory of business.” Harvard Business Review, 75, September–October, pp. 95–105.
3    See Bart, C.K., and Beatz. (1998) “The relationship between mission statements and
firm per-formance: An exploratory study,” Journal of Management Studies, 35(6): 823–853;
Bartkus, B., Glassman, M.; and McAfee, B. (2000) “Mission statements: Are they smoke
and mirrors?” Business Horizons, November/December: 23–28; and Smith, M., Heady, R.,
Cason, P, and Ca-son K. (2003) “Do Missions Accomplish Their Missions?: An Exploratory
Analysis of Mission Statement Content and Organizational Longevity,” Journal of Applied
Management and Entre-preneurship, 6(1): 75–96.
4    See www.enron.com.
5    See Emshwiller, J., D. Solomon, and R. Smith. (2004). “Lay is indicted for his role in
Enron collapse.” The Wall Street Journal, July 8, pp. A1+; Gilmartin, R. (2005). “They fought
the law.” BusinessWeek, January 10, pp. 82–83.
6    These performance results were presented originally in Collins, J. C., and J. I. Porras.
(1997). Built to last: Successful habits of visionary companies. New York: HarperCollins.
7    Collins, J. C., and J. I. Porras. (1997). Built to last: successful habits of visionary
companies.
8    Yahoo’s story is summarized in “Yahoo Rejects Microsoft’s Bid,” CNET.com, retrieved
on November 1, 2016; Nicholas Carlson, “Jerry Yang’s Last Laugh,” businessinsider.com,
retrieved November 1, 2016; and “Verizon Buys Yahoo for $4.8 Billion,” CNBC.com,
retrieved November 1, 2016.
9    This definition of competitive advantage has a long history in the field of strategic
management. For example, it is closely related to the definitions provided in Barney (1986,
1991) and Porter (1985). It is also consistent with the value-based approach described in
Peteraf (2001), Brandenburger and Stuart (1999), and Besanko, Dranove, and Shanley
(2000). For more discussion on this definition, see Peteraf and Barney (2004).
10    D. C. Mueller (1977). “The persistence of profits above the norm.” Economica, 44, pp.
369–380; P. W. Roberts (1999). “Product innovation, product-market competition, and
persistent profitability in the U.S. pharmaceutical industry.” Strategic Management Journal,
20, pp. 655–670; G. F. Waring (1996). “Industry differences in the persistence of firm-
specific returns.” The American Economic Review, 86, pp. 1253–1265; A. McGahan and M.
Porter (2003). “The emergence and sustainability of abnormal profits.” Strategic
Organization, 1(1), pp. 79–108.
11    A. Osterwalder and Y. Pigneur (2010). Business Model Generator. NY: Wiley. G.
George and A. J. Bock (2011). The business model in practice and its implications for
entrepreneurial research. Entrepreneurship: Theory and Practice, 35(1), 83–111. C. Zott, R.
Amit, and L. Massa. (2010). The Business Model: Theoretical Roots, Recent Development,
and Future Research. Working Paper 862, IESE, Barcelona, Spain.
12    T. Copeland, T. Koller, and J. Murrin (1995). Valuation: Measuring and managing the
value of companies. New York: Wiley; L. Donaldson (1990). “The ethereal hand:
Organizational economics and management theory.” Academy of Review, 15, pp. 369–381;
and E. Freeman, J. Harrison, A. Wicks, B. Parmar, and S. de Colle (2010 Stakeholder
Theory: The State of the Art. Cambridge: Cambridge.
13    FedEx’s history is described in Trimble, V. (1993). Overnight success: Federal
Express and Frederick Smith, its renegade creator. New York: Crown.
14    Mintzberg, H. (1978). “Patterns in strategy formulation.” Management Science, 24(9),
pp. 934–948; and Mintzberg, H. (1985). “Of strategies, deliberate and emergent.” Strategic
Management Journal, 6(3), pp. 257–272. Mintzberg has been most influential in expanding
the study of strategy to include emergent strategies.
15    The J&J and Marriott emergent strategy stories can be found in Collins, J. C., and J.
I. Porras. (1997). Built to last: Successful habits of visionary companies. New York:
HarperCollins.
Chapter 2 Evaluating a Firm’s
External Environment
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to:


               2.1 Describe the dimensions of the general
               environment facing a firm and how this
               environment can affect a firm’s opportunities and
               threats.
               2.2 Describe how the structure-conduct-
               performance (S-C-P) model suggests that
               industry structure can influence a firm’s
               competitive choices.
               2.3 Describe the five environmental threats and
               indicators of when each of these threats will
               enhance or reduce the attractiveness of an
               industry.
               2.4 Discuss the role of complements in analyzing
               competition within an industry.
               2.5 Describe four generic industry structures and
               specific strategic opportunities in those
               industries.
MyLab Management
  Improve Your Grade!


If your instructor is using MyLab Management, visit
www.pearson.com/mylab/management for
simulations, tutorials, and end-of-chapter problems.
How Attractive is the Music
Streaming Industry?
The idea was simple: Instead of purchasing and downloading
music from online retailers like Apple’s iTunes, why not rent
music to listeners, enabling them to stream only the music
they want to listen to when they want to listen to it. The result
was the music streaming industry.

RealNetworks, a firm that had thrived in the 1990s building
streaming technologies for the Internet, was the first firm to
create a music streaming service. This service, initially called
RealOne Rhapsody and later just Rhapsody, charged its
users a monthly fee of $9.95 for the right to stream any song,
any time from the over 330,000 tracks in its library. Launched
in April 2003, Rhapsody had grown to 800,000 subscribers by
2009. Other streaming services followed Rhapsody’s lead.
For example, Pandora, Slacker Radio, and MOG all began
competing in the music streaming business in 2005. Spotify
began in 2008.

Despite the growing number of firms competing in the music
streaming industry, the industry’s growth didn’t take off until
smartphones had become popular in the second half of the
2000s. In the beginning, mobile phones were just that—
phones that could be used on the go. But smartphones
combined the power of computing, with the convenience of
mobility, and the accessibility of a media player, all connected
to the Internet. In 2010 alone, nearly 300 million smartphones
were sold worldwide.




Neil Thomas/Gallo Images/Alamy Stock Photo
Smartphones dramatically increased the value of music
streaming services to consumers. This increased value was
reflected in the number of music streaming customers.
Pandora, for example, almost doubled the number of its users
when it introduced its first smartphone app in 2008. By 2013,
Pandora claimed over 70 million monthly users worldwide.

Not surprisingly, the growth in this market led to the
emergence of additional new competitors, including Google
(with Google Play Music All Access) in 2013, Amazon (with
music streaming associated with its Amazon Prime product) in
2014, and Apple (with Apple Music) in 2015. Some of these
new competitors had features not offered by incumbent firms
—Apple Music, for example, used the Siri feature available on
many Apple products to provide easy access to its music
library—at roughly the same price point as established
streaming firms.

Of course, streaming has fundamentally altered the economic
structure of the music industry. In 2011, sales of digital music
in the United States were, for the first time, greater than
physical music sales. By 2015, streaming constituted 34.3%
of the U.S. music market, downloading 34%, and physical
sales 28.8%.

Streaming has also energized some of the biggest names in
the music industry, as artists seek to get what they see as
their fair share of the money being generated by streaming.
On the one hand, some artists—including most notably Taylor
Swift—have removed their catalogue from online streaming
services, arguing that those services undercut their royalty
payments. On the other hand, other entertainers—including
most notably Jay Z—have started streaming businesses with
more “artist friendly” policies. Jay Z’s streaming service, Tidal,
has attracted high profile artists including Beyoncé, Daft Punk,
Madonna, Kanye West, and Rihanna. Finally, still other artists
have partnered with streaming services for the exclusive
release of their new music. Drake released his 2016 album
Views exclusively through Apple Music, and Beyoncé’s new
album Lemonade could only be streamed on Tidal.

However, despite the huge number of customers (Apple
Music had over 11 million subscribers just six months after it
was released), the huge revenues for some of these firms
(Spotify passed €1 billion in revenues in 2014), and the
billions of dollars of financial capital these firms have raised,
few music streaming firms have yet to generate a consistent
profit.

One reason for this lack of profitability is that music streaming
companies must gain access to a broad range of music to
attract customers, but music production is dominated by three
large firms—Sony Music, Universal, and Warner Music.
Together, these firms control three fourths of the music
produced in the world, and require high licensing fees to gain
access to this music. Spotify, for example, must pay out over
70% of its revenues to these record companies to create the
library of music its customers want.
Apparently, high growth and huge revenues do not guarantee
high profits in the music streaming business.1
So, how attractive is the music streaming
industry? The level of competition among firms
in this industry seems high—there are large
numbers of competitors and their products are
relatively similar. New competitors continue to
enter the industry, and some of these new
entrants are competitive “heavyweights” like
Apple, Google, and Amazon. Despite the growth
of this market, there continue to be close
substitutes—music downloads and physical
sales still constituted almost 63% of music sales
in the United States in 2015. Both artists and,
especially, record companies—as suppliers—
are demanding and receiving high levels of
compensation for making music available to
streamers. Customers have few loyalties to
particular streaming services. And, the value of
streaming continues to depend on the growth of
the smartphone category.

In short, this a tough place to make a profit.

This chapter presents a series of models and
tools that can be used to evaluate the
attractiveness of the industry within which a firm
operates. It begins with a discussion of
evaluating trends in a firm’s broader
environment and then shifts to understanding
threats and opportunities within a firm’s industry.
Understanding a Firm’s General
Environment
Objective 2.1 Describe the dimensions of the general environment
              facing a firm and how this environment can affect a
              firm’s opportunities and threats.

Any analysis of the threats and opportunities facing a firm must
begin with an understanding of the general environment within which
a firm operates. This general environment consists of broad
trends in the context within which a firm operates that can have an
impact on a firm’s strategic choices. As depicted in Figure 2.1 , the
general environment consists of six interrelated elements:
technological change, demographic trends, cultural trends, the
economic climate, legal and political conditions, and specific
international events. Each of these elements of the general
environment is discussed in this section.
Figure 2.1 The General Environment Facing Firms


In 1899, Charles H. Duell, commissioner of the U.S. patent office,
said, “Everything that can be invented has been invented.”2 He was
wrong. Technological changes over the past few years have had
significant impacts on the ways firms do business and on the
products and services they sell. These impacts have been most
obvious for technologies that build on digital information—
computers, the Internet, mobile phones, and so forth. Many of us
routinely use digital products or services that did not exist just a few
years ago. However, rapid technological innovation has not been
restricted to digital technologies. Biotechnology has also made rapid
progress over the past 10 years. New kinds of medicines are now
being created. As important, biotechnology holds the promise of
developing entirely new ways of both preventing and treating
disease.3


Technological change creates both opportunity, as firms begin to
explore how to use technology to create new products and services,
and threats, as technological change forces firms to rethink their
technological strategies.


A second element of the general environment facing firms is
demographic trends. Demographics is the distribution of
individuals in a society in terms of age, sex, marital status, income,
ethnicity, and other personal attributes that may determine buying
patterns. Understanding this basic information about a population
can help a firm determine whether its products or services will
appeal to customers and how many potential customers for these
products or services it might have.


Some demographic trends are very well known. For example, most
people have heard of the “baby boom generation” (born between
1946 and 1964), “generation X” (born between 1965 and 1976), the
“millennial generation” (born between 1977 and 1995), and the
“iGeneration” (born after 1996). While individuals within these
generation categories can vary, research suggests some trends
among these groups that can have important implications for
business.4
For example, “baby boomers” have typically adopted a “buy now,
pay later” attitude towards money and have often not saved enough
for retirement. “Generation X,” on the other hand tends to be very
conservative with its money, and aggressively saves for the future.
“Millennials,” on average, earn to spend, and also do not save a
great deal. The financial preferences of “iGen” aren’t yet known,
because they are only now entering their earning years.


Financial services companies must adjust their product offerings to
be consistent with the interests of these different kinds of customers.
For example, “baby boomers” have a hard time saving. Financial
services that make the cost of saving lower—like automatic payroll
deduction programs—will be popular among this generation of
customers. “Generation X” customers, on the other hand, already
save. What they are looking for are investment opportunities.
“Millennials” don’t currently save, but they also avoid debt. Helping
this generation understand that saving is also a form of consumption
is a big marketing challenge for financial services companies. Finally,
while both Gen X and Millennials respond more to social media
forms of marketing than Baby Boomers, Gen X customers are still
very influenced by their customer experience when they visit a
bank.5


In the United States, an important demographic trend over the past
30 years has been the growth of the Hispanic population. In 1990,
the percentage of the U.S. population that was African American was
greater than the percentage that was Hispanic. However, by 2000,
people of Latin descent outnumbered African Americans. Currently,
Hispanics constitute more than 17 percent of the U.S. population,
whereas the percentage of African Americans remains constant at
less than 8 percent. These trends are particularly notable in the
South and Southwest. For example, Hispanics make up between 20
and 34 percent of the populations of Nevada, Arizona, Florida, and
Colorado, and 35 percent or more of the population of California,
Texas, and New Mexico.6 Indeed, Hispanic buying power rose to $1
trillion in 2010, 9% of the total buying power in the United States.


Of course, firms are aware of this growing population and its buying
power. Proctor and Gamble (P&G) is one firm that has focused its
efforts on increasing its sales among Hispanic consumers. While
behind Colgate-Palmolive in toothpaste, P&G has adjusted its
products and marketing to be more attractive to Hispanic consumers.
For example, more P&G products than ever include fragrances
preferred by Hispanic shoppers, including lavender. They have
begun distributing coupons in Spanish. And, they have begun hiring
Latin spokespeople for some of their products—Eva Mendes for
Pantene Shampoo and Jennifer Lopez for Venus Razors.7


A third element of a firm’s general environment is cultural trends.
Culture is the values, beliefs, and norms that guide behavior in a
society. These values, beliefs, and norms define what is “right and
wrong” in a society, what is acceptable and unacceptable, what is
fashionable and unfashionable. Failure to understand changes in
culture, or differences between cultures, can have a very large
impact on the ability of a firm to gain a competitive advantage.
This becomes most obvious when firms operate in multiple countries
simultaneously. Even seemingly small differences in culture can
have an impact. For example, advertisements in the United States
that end with a person putting their index finger and thumb together
mean that a product is “okay”; in Brazil, the same symbol is vulgar
and offensive. Ads in the United States that have a bride dressed in
white may be very confusing to the Chinese because, in China, white
is the traditional color worn at funerals. In Germany, women typically
purchase their own engagement rings, whereas in the United States,
men purchase engagement rings for their fiancées. And what might
be appropriate ways to treat women colleagues in Japan or France
would land most men in U.S. firms in serious trouble. Understanding
the cultural context within which a firm operates is important in
evaluating the ability of a firm to generate competitive advantages.8


A fourth element of a firm’s general environment is the current
economic climate. The economic climate is the overall health of
the economic systems within which a firm operates. The health of
the economy varies over time in a distinct pattern: Periods of relative
prosperity, when demand for goods and services is high and
unemployment is low, are followed by periods of relatively low
prosperity, when demand for goods and services is low and
unemployment is high. When activity in an economy is relatively low,
the economy is said to be in recession . A severe recession that
lasts for several years is known as a depression     . This alternating
pattern of prosperity followed by recession, followed by prosperity, is
called the business cycle .
Throughout the 1990s, the world, and especially the United States,
enjoyed a period of sustained economic growth. Some observers
even speculated that the government had become so skilled at
managing demand in the economy through adjusting interest rates
that a period of recession did not necessarily have to follow a period
of sustained economic growth. Of course, the business cycle has
reared its ugly head twice since the 1990s—first with the technology
bubble-burst around 2001 and, more recently, in the credit crunch in
2008. Most observers now agree that although government policy
can have a significant impact on the frequency and size of economic
downturns, these policies are unlikely to be able to prevent these
downturns altogether.

A fifth element of a firm’s general environment is legal and political
conditions    . The legal and political dimensions of an
organization’s general environment are the laws and the legal
system’s impact on business, together with the general nature of the
relationship between government and business. These laws and the
relationship between business and government can vary significantly
around the world. For example, in Japan, business and the
government are generally seen as having a consistently close and
cooperative relationship. Indeed, some have observed that one
reason that the Japanese economy has been growing so slowly over
the past decade has been the government’s reluctance to impose
economic restructuring that would hurt the performance of some
Japanese firms—especially the largest Japanese banks. In the
United States, however, the quality of the relationship between
business and the government tends to vary over time. In some
administrations, rigorous antitrust regulation and tough
environmental standards—both seen as inconsistent with the
interests of business—dominate. In other administrations, antitrust
regulation is less rigorous and the imposition of environmental
standards is delayed, suggesting a more business-friendly
perspective.

A final attribute of a firm’s general environment is specific
international events     . These include events such as civil wars,
political coups, terrorism, wars between countries, famines, and
country or regional economic recessions. All of these specific events
can have an enormous impact on the ability of a firm’s strategies to
generate competitive advantage.

Of course, one of the most important of these specific events to have
occurred over the past several decades was the terrorist attacks on
New York City and Washington, D.C., on September 11, 2001.
Beyond the tragic loss of life, these attacks had important business
implications as well. For example, it took more than five years for
airline demand to return to pre–September 11 levels. Insurance
companies had to pay out billions of dollars in unanticipated claims
as a result of the attacks. Defense contractors saw demand for their
products soar as the United States and some of its allies began
waging war in Afghanistan and then Iraq.


A firm’s general environment defines the broad contextual
background within which it operates. Understanding this general
environment can help a firm identify some of the threats and
opportunities it faces. However, this general environment often has
an impact on a firm’s threats and opportunities through its impact on
a firm’s more local environment. Thus, while analyzing a firm’s
general environment is an important step in any application of the
strategic management process, this general analysis must be
accompanied by an analysis of a firm’s more local environment if the
threats and opportunities facing a firm are to be fully understood.
The next section discusses specific tools for analyzing a firm’s local
environment and the theoretical perspectives from which these tools
have been derived.
The Structure-Conduct-
Performance Model of Firm
Performance
Objective 2.2 Describe how the structure-conduct-performance (S-
              C-P) model suggests that industry structure can
              influence a firm’s competitive choices.

In the 1930s, a group of economists began developing an approach
for understanding the relationship among a firm’s environment,
behavior, and performance. The original objective of this work was to
describe conditions under which competition in an industry would not
develop. Understanding when competition was not developing in an
industry assisted government regulators in identifying industries
where competition-enhancing regulations should be implemented.9
E T H I C S A N D S T R AT E G Y
Is a Firm Gaining a Competitive Advantage Good for
Society?


One of the basic tenets of economic theory is that society is
better off when industries are very competitive. Industries are
very competitive when there are large numbers of firms
operating in an industry, when the products and services that
these firms sell are similar to each other, and when it is not
very costly for firms to enter into or exit these industries.
Indeed, as is described in more detail in the Strategy in
Depth     feature, these industries are said to be perfectly
competitive     .

The reasons that society is better off when industries are
perfectly competitive are well known. In such industries, firms
must constantly strive to keep their costs low, keep their
quality high, and, when appropriate, innovate if they are to
even survive. Low costs, high quality, and appropriate
innovation are generally consistent with the interests of a
firm’s customers and, thus, consistent with society’s overall
welfare.

Indeed, concern for social welfare      , or the overall good of
society, is the primary reason the S-C-P model was
developed. This model was to be used to identify industries
where perfect competition was not occurring and, thus, where
social welfare was not being maximized. With these industries
identified, the government could then engage in activities to
increase the competitiveness of these industries, thereby
increasing social welfare.

Strategic management scholars turned the S-C-P model
upside down by using it to describe industries where firms
could gain competitive advantages and attain above-average
performance. However, some have asked that if strategic
management is all about creating and exploiting competitive
imperfections in industries, is strategic management also all
about reducing the overall good of society for advantages to
be gained by a few firms? It is not surprising that individuals
who are more interested in improving society than improving
the performance of a few firms question the moral legitimacy
of the field of strategic management.

However, there is another view about strategic management
and social welfare. The S-C-P model assumes that any
competitive advantages a firm has in an industry must hurt
society. The alternative view is that at least some of the
competitive advantages exist because a firm addresses
customer needs more effectively than its competitors. From
this perspective, competitive advantages are not bad for
social welfare; they are actually good for social welfare.

Of course, both perspectives can be true. For example, a firm
such as Microsoft has engaged in activities that at least some
courts have concluded are inconsistent with social welfare.
However, Microsoft also sells applications software that is
routinely ranked among the best in the industry, an action that
   is consistent with meeting customer needs in ways that
   maximize social welfare.10


The theoretical framework that developed out of this effort became
known as the structure-conduct-performance (S-C-P) model ; it
is summarized in Figure 2.2      . The term structure     in this model
refers to industry structure, measured by such factors as the number
of competitors in an industry, the heterogeneity of products in an
industry, the cost of entry and exit in an industry, and so forth.
Conduct      refers to the strategies that firms in an industry
implement. Performance in the S-C-P model has two meanings:
(1) the performance of individual firms; and (2) the performance of
the economy as a whole. Although both definitions of performance in
the S-C-P model are important, as suggested in Chapter 1 , the
strategic management process is much more focused on the
performance of individual firms than on the performance of the
economy as a whole. That said, the relationship between these two
types of performance can sometimes be complex, as described in
the Ethics and Strategy       feature.
Figure 2.2 The Structure-Conduct-Performance Model


The logic that links industry structure to conduct and performance is
well known. Attributes of the industry structure within which a firm
operates define the range of options and constraints facing a firm. In
some industries, firms have very few options and face many
constraints. In general, firms in these industries can only gain
competitive parity. In this setting, industry structure completely
determines both firm conduct and long-run firm performance.
However, in other, less competitive industries, firms face fewer
constraints and a greater range of conduct options. Some of these
options may enable them to obtain competitive advantages.
However, even when firms have more conduct options, industry
structure still constrains the range of options. Moreover, as will be
shown in more detail later in this chapter, industry structure also has
an impact on how long firms can expect to maintain their competitive
advantages in the face of increased competition.
A Model of Environmental Threats
Objective 2.3 Describe the five environmental threats and
               indicators of when each of these threats will enhance
               or reduce the attractiveness of an industry.

As a theoretical framework, the S-C-P model has proven to be very
useful in informing both research and government policy. However,
the model can sometimes be awkward to use to identify threats in a
firm’s local environment. Fortunately, several scholars have
developed models of environmental threats based on the S-C-P
model that are highly applicable in identifying threats facing a
particular firm.11 These models identify the five most common
threats, presented in Figure 2.3 , faced by firms in their local
competitive environments and the conditions under which these
threats are more or less likely to be present. The relationship
between the S-C-P model and the framework presented in Figure
2.3   is discussed in the Strategy in Depth    feature.
Figure 2.3 Environmental Threats and the Profit Potential of
Industries


To a firm seeking competitive advantages, an environmental
threat is any individual, group, or organization outside a firm that
seeks to reduce the level of that firm’s performance. Threats
increase a firm’s costs, decrease a firm’s revenues, or in other ways
reduce a firm’s performance. In S-C-P terms, environmental threats
are forces that tend to increase the competitiveness of an industry
and force firm performance to competitive parity level. The five
common environmental threats identified in the literature are: (1)
threat from new competition; (2) threat from competition among
existing competitors; (3) threat from superior or low-cost substitutes;
(4) threat of supplier leverage; and (5) threats from buyers’ influence.
Threat from New Competition
The first environmental threat identified in Figure 2.3   is the threat
of new competitors. New competitors are firms that have either
recently started operating in an industry or that threaten to begin
operations in an industry soon. In the music streaming industry,
Apple, Google, and Amazon are new competitors.


According to the S-C-P model, new competitors are motivated to
enter into an industry either by the superior profits that some
incumbent firms in that industry are currently earning, or the profits
that firms in this industry may earn some time in the future. Firms
seeking these high profits enter the industry, thereby increasing the
level of industry competition and reducing the performance of
incumbent firms. With the absence of any barriers, entry will continue
as long as any firms in the industry are earning competitive
advantages, and entry will cease when all incumbent firms are
earning competitive parity.
S T R AT E G Y I N D E P T H




Environmental Threats and the S-C-P Model

The relationship between environmental threats and the S-C-
P model turns on the relationship between these threats and
the nature of competition in an industry. When all five threats
are very high, competition in an industry begins to approach
what economists call perfect competition      . When all five
threats are very low, competition in an industry begins to
approach what economists call a monopoly         . Between
perfect competition and monopoly, economists have identified
two other types of competition in an industry—monopolistic
competition and oligopoly —where the five threats
identified in the literature are moderately high. These four
types of competition, and the expected performance of firms
in these different industries, are summarized in the nearby
table.

Industries are perfectly competitive when there are large
numbers of competing firms, the products being sold are
homogeneous with respect to cost and product attributes, and
entry and exit costs are very low. An example of a perfectly
competitive industry is the spot market for crude oil. Firms in
perfectly competitive industries can expect to earn only
competitive parity.

In monopolistically competitive industries , there are
large numbers of competing firms and low-cost entry into and
exit from the industry. However, unlike the case of perfect
competition, products in these industries are not
homogeneous with respect to costs or product attributes.
Examples of monopolistically competitive industries include
toothpaste, shampoo, golf balls, and automobiles. Firms in
such industries can earn competitive advantages.

Oligopolies     are characterized by a small number of
competing firms, by homogeneous products, and by high
entry and exit costs. Examples of oligopolistic industries
include the U.S. automobile and steel industries in the 1950s
and the U.S. breakfast cereal market today. Currently, the top
four producers of breakfast cereal account for about 90
percent of the breakfast cereal sold in the United States.
Firms in such industries can earn competitive advantages.

Finally, monopolistic industries consist of only a single
firm. Entry into this type of industry is very costly. There are
few examples of purely monopolistic industries. Historically,
for example, the U.S. Post Office had a monopoly on home
mail delivery. However, this monopoly has been challenged in
small-package delivery by FedEx, in larger-package delivery
by UPS, and in mail delivery by e-mail. Monopolists can
generate competitive advantages—although they are
sometimes managed very inefficiently.12
The extent to which new competitors act as a threat to an incumbent
firm’s performance depends on the cost of entry. If the cost of entry
into an industry is greater than the potential profits a new competitor
could obtain by entering, then entry will not be forthcoming, and new
competitors are not a threat to incumbent firms. However, if the cost
of entry is lower than the return from entry, entry will occur until the
profits derived from entry are less than the costs of entry.

The threat of new competitors depends on the cost of entry, and the
cost of entry, in turn, depends on the existence and “height” of
barriers to entry. Barriers to entry    are attributes of an industry’s
structure that increase the cost of entry. The greater the cost of entry,
the greater the height of these barriers. When there are significant
barriers to entry, potential new competitors will not enter into an
industry even if incumbent firms are earning competitive advantages.


Four important barriers to entry have been identified in the S-C-P
and strategy literatures. These four barriers, listed in Table 2.1    ,
are: (1) economies of scale; (2) product differentiation; (3) cost
advantages independent of scale; and (4) government regulation of
entry.13


Table 2.1 Possible Barriers to Entry into an Industry
Economies of Scale as a Barrier to Entry
Economies of scale       exist in an industry when a firm’s costs fall
as a function of its volume of production. Diseconomies of scale
exist when a firm’s costs rise as a function of its volume of
production. The relationship among economies of scale,
diseconomies of scale, and a firm’s volume of production is
summarized in Figure 2.4      . As a firm’s volume of production
increases, its costs begin to fall. This is a manifestation of
economies of scale. However, at some point, a firm’s volume of
production becomes too large and its costs begin to rise. This is a
manifestation of diseconomies of scale. For economies of scale to
act as a barrier to entry, the relationship between the volume of
production and firm costs must have the shape of the line in Figure
2.4   . This curve suggests that any deviation, positive or negative,
from an optimal level of production (point X in Figure 2.4      ) will lead
a firm to experience much higher costs of production.
Figure 2.4 Economies of Scale and the Cost of Production


To see how economies of scale can act as a barrier to entry,
consider the following scenario. Imagine an industry with the
following attributes: The industry has five incumbent firms (each firm
has only one plant); the optimal level of production in each of these
plants is 4,000 units (X = 4, 000 units); total demand for the
output of this industry is fixed at 22,000 units; the economies-of-
scale curve is as depicted in Figure 2.4      ; and products in this
industry are very homogeneous. Total demand in this industry
(22,000 units) is greater than total supply
(5 × 4, 000 units = 20, 000).     Everyone knows that when demand
is greater than supply, prices go up. This means that the five
incumbent firms in this industry will have high levels of profit. The S-
C-P model suggests that, absent barriers, these superior profits
should motivate entry.

However, look at the entry decision from the point of view of potential
new competitors. Certainly, incumbent firms are earning superior
profits, but potential entrants face an unsavory choice. On the one
hand, new competitors could enter the industry with an optimally
efficient plant and produce 4,000 units. However, this form of entry
will lead industry supply to rise to 24,000 units (20, 000 + 4, 000).
Suddenly, supply will be greater than demand (24, 000 > 22, 000),
and all the firms in the industry, including the new entrant, will earn
negative profits. On the other hand, the new competitor might enter
the industry with a plant of smaller-than-optimal size (e.g., 1,000
units). This kind of entry leaves total industry demand larger than
industry supply (22, 000   > 21, 000).   However, the new competitor
faces a serious cost disadvantage in this case because it does not
produce at the low-cost position on the economies-of-scale curve.
Faced with these bleak alternatives, the potential entrant simply
does not enter even though incumbent firms are earning positive
profits.


Of course, potential new competitors have other options besides
entering at the efficient scale and losing money or entering at an
inefficient scale and losing money. For example, potential entrants
can attempt to expand the total size of the market (i.e., increase total
demand from 22,000 to 24,000 units or more) and enter at the
optimal size. Potential entrants can also attempt to develop new
production technology, shift the economies-of-scale curve to the left
(thereby reducing the optimal plant size), and enter. Or potential new
competitors may try to make their products seem very special to their
customers, enabling them to charge higher prices to offset higher
production costs associated with a smaller-than-optimal plant.14


Any of these actions may enable a firm to enter an industry.
However, these actions are costly. If the cost of engaging in these
“barrier-busting” activities is greater than the return from entry, entry
will not occur, even if incumbent firms are earning positive profits.


Historically, economies of scale acted as a barrier to entry into the
worldwide steel market. To fully exploit economies of scale,
traditional steel plants had to be very large. If new entrants into the
steel market had built these efficient and large steel-manufacturing
plants, they would have had the effect of increasing the steel supply
over the demand for steel, and the outcome would have been
reduced profits for both new entrants and incumbent firms. This
discouraged new entry. However, in the 1970s, the development of
alternative mini-mill technology shifted the economies-of-scale curve
to the left by making smaller plants very efficient in addressing some
segments of the steel market. This shift had the effect of decreasing
barriers to entry into the steel industry. Recent entrants, including
Nucor Steel and Chaparral Steel, now have significant cost
advantages over firms still using outdated, less efficient production
technology.15
Product Differentiation as a Barrier to
Entry
Product differentiation      means that incumbent firms possess
brand identification and customer loyalty that potential new
competitors do not. Brand identification and customer loyalty serve
as entry barriers because new competitors not only have to absorb
the standard costs associated with starting production in a new
industry; they also have to absorb the costs associated with
overcoming incumbent firms’ differentiation advantages. If the cost of
overcoming these advantages is greater than the potential return
from entering an industry, entry will not occur, even if incumbent
firms are earning positive profits.


Numerous examples exist of industries in which product
differentiation tends to act as a barrier to entry. In the brewing
industry, for example, substantial investments by Budweiser, Miller,
and Coors (among other incumbent firms) in advertising (will we ever
forget the Budweiser frogs?) and brand recognition have made
large-scale entry into the U.S. brewing industry very costly.16 Indeed,
rather than attempting to enter the U.S. market, InBev, a large
brewer headquartered in Belgium, decided to purchase Anheuser
Busch.17


E. & J. Gallo Winery, a U.S. winemaker, faced product differentiation
barriers to entry in its efforts to sell Gallo wine in the French market.
The market for wine in France is huge—the French consume 16.1
gallons of wine per person per year, for a total consumption of more
than 400 million cases of wine, whereas U.S. consumers drink only
1.8 gallons of wine per person per year, for a total consumption of
less than 200 million cases. Despite this difference, intense loyalties
to local French vineyards have made it very difficult for Gallo to
break into the huge French market—a market where American wines
are still given as “gag gifts” and only American theme restaurants
carry U.S. wines on their menus. Gallo is attempting to overcome
this product differentiation advantage of French wineries by
emphasizing its California roots—roots that many French consider to
be exotic—and downplaying the fact that it is a U.S. company;
corporate origins that are less attractive to many French
consumers.18
Cost Advantages Independent of Scale
as Barriers to Entry
In addition to the barriers that have been cited, incumbent firms may
have a whole range of cost advantages, independent of economies
of scale, compared to new competitors. These cost advantages can
act to deter entry because new competitors will find themselves at a
cost disadvantage vis-à-vis incumbent firms with these cost
advantages. New competitors can engage in activities to overcome
the cost advantages of incumbent firms, but as the cost of
overcoming them increases, the economic profit potential from entry
is reduced. In some settings, incumbent firms enjoying cost
advantages, independent of scale, can earn superior profits and still
not be threatened by new entry because the cost of overcoming
those advantages can be prohibitive.

Examples of these cost advantages, independent of scale, are
presented in Table 2.2   ; they include: (1) proprietary technology;
(2) managerial know-how; (3) favorable access to raw materials; and
(4) learning-curve cost advantages.


Table 2.2 Sources of Cost Advantage, Independent of Scale,
That Can Act as Barriers to Entry
Proprietary Technology
In some industries, proprietary (i.e., secret or patented)
technology      gives incumbent firms important cost advantages
over potential entrants. To enter these industries, potential new
competitors must develop their own substitute technologies or run
the risks of copying another firm’s patented technologies. Both of
these activities can be costly. Numerous firms in a wide variety of
industries have discovered the sometimes-substantial economic
costs are associated with violating another firm’s patented
proprietary technology. Indeed, the number of patent infringement
suits continues to increase, especially in industries—such as
consumer electronics—where products apply technologies
developed by many different companies. In the past few years,
Intertrust has sued Apple, Yahoo! has sued Facebook, Google has
sued BT, Boston University has sued Apple, Nokia has sued HTC,
Samsung has sued Apple, and Apple has sued Samsung.19 In 2015,
a total of 5,830 patent infringement suits were filed in the United
States, down from 6,114 in 2013, but up 15 percent from 2014.20
Managerial Know-How
Even more important than technology per se as a barrier to entry is
the managerial know-how built up by incumbent firms over their
history.21 Managerial know-how            is the oft-taken for granted
knowledge and information that are needed to compete in an
industry on a day-to-day basis.22 Know-how includes information that
it has taken years, sometimes decades, for a firm to accumulate that
enables it to interact with customers and suppliers, to be innovative
and creative, to manufacture quality products, and so forth. Typically,
new entrants will not have access to this know-how, and it will often
be costly for them to build it quickly.


One industry where this kind of know-how is a very important barrier
to entry is the pharmaceutical industry. Success in this industry
depends on having high-quality research and development skills.
The development of world-class research skills—the science behind
new medicines—and development skills—knowing how to take
drugs through the regulatory and sales process—takes decades to
accumulate. New competitors face enormous cost disadvantages for
decades as they attempt to develop these abilities, and thus entry
into the pharmaceutical industry by integrated research and
development firms has been quite limited.23
Favorable Access to Raw Materials
Incumbent firms may also have cost advantages, compared to new
entrants, based on favorable access to raw materials. If, for
example, only a few sources of high-quality iron ore are available in
a specific geographic region, steel firms that have access to these
sources may have a cost advantage over those that must ship their
ore in from distant sources.24


Learning-Curve Cost Advantages
It has been shown that in certain industries (such as airplane
manufacturing) the cost of production falls with the cumulative
volume of production. Over time, as incumbent firms gain experience
in manufacturing, their costs fall below those of potential entrants.
Potential new competitors, in this context, must endure substantially
higher costs while they gain experience, and thus they may not enter
the industry despite the superior profits being earned by incumbent
firms.These learning-curve economies are discussed in more detail
in Chapter 4    .
Government Policy as a Barrier to Entry
Governments, for their own reasons, may decide to increase the cost
of entry into an industry. This occurs most frequently when a firm
operates as a government-regulated monopoly. In this setting, the
government has concluded that it is in a better position to ensure
that specific products or services are made available to the
population at reasonable prices than competitive market forces.
Industries such as electric power generation and elementary and
secondary education have been (and, to some extent, continue to
be) protected from new competitors by government restrictions on
entry.
Threat from Existing Competitors
New competitors are an important threat to the ability of firms to
maintain or improve their level of performance, but they are not the
only threat in a firm’s environment. A second environmental threat
comes from the intensity of competition among a firm’s current direct
competitors. Spotify, Deezer, Pandora, and Rhapsody are all direct
competitors in the music streaming industry.


Direct competition threatens firms by reducing their economic profits.
High levels of direct competition are indicated by such actions as
frequent price cutting by firms in an industry (e.g., price discounts in
the airline industry), frequent introduction of new products by firms in
an industry (e.g., continuous product introductions in consumer
electronics), intense advertising campaigns (e.g., Pepsi versus Coke
advertising), and rapid competitive actions and reactions in an
industry (e.g., competing airlines quickly matching the discounts of
other airlines).


Some of the attributes of an industry that are likely to generate high
levels of direct competition are listed in Table 2.3   . First, direct
competition tends to be high when there are numerous firms in an
industry. Such is the case in the Windows PC manufacturing
industry. While HP, Dell, Lenovo, Aer, and Asus collectively make
60% of the PCs sold in the world, hundreds of smaller firms also
compete in this market. The result of this competition has been that
PC retail prices have continued to fall, to an average low in 2014 of
$544.30. As striking, the profits that these firms generate on these
sales have fallen even faster, down to just $14.87 per unit sold in
2014. This is a retail margin of only 2.7 percent.25


Table 2.3 Attributes of an Industry That Increase the Threat of
Direct Competition


Second, direct competition tends to be high when industry growth is
slow. When industry growth is slow, firms seeking to increase their
sales must often acquire market share from established competitors.
This tends to increase competition. Intense price rivalry emerged in
the U.S. fast-food industry—with 99-cent Whoppers at Burger King
and “dollar menus” at Wendy’s and McDonald’s—when the growth in
this industry declined.26


Third, direct competition tends to be high when firms are unable to
differentiate their products in an industry. When product
differentiation is not a viable strategic option, firms are often forced
to compete only on the basis of price. Intense price competition is
typical of high-competition industries. In the airline industry, for
example, intense competition on longer routes—such as between
Los Angeles and New York and Los Angeles and Chicago—has kept
prices on these routes down. These routes have relatively few
product differentiation options. However, by creating hub-and-spoke
systems, certain airlines (American, United, Delta) have been able to
develop regions of the United States where they are the dominant
carrier. These hub-and-spoke systems enable airlines to partially
differentiate their products geographically, thus reducing the level of
competition in segments of this industry.27
Finally, direct competition tends to be high when production capacity
is added in large increments. If, in order to obtain economies of
scale, production capacity must be added in large increments, an
industry is likely to experience periods of oversupply after new
capacity comes online. This overcapacity often leads to price cuts.
Much of the growing rivalry in the commercial jet industry between
Boeing and AirBus can be traced to the large manufacturing capacity
additions made by AirBus when it entered the industry.28
Threat of Substitute Products
A third environmental threat is the threat of substitute products. The
products or services provided by a firm’s direct competitors meet
approximately the same customer needs in the same ways as the
products or services provided by the firm itself. Substitutes       meet
approximately the same customer needs, but do so in different ways.
Substitutes for music streaming include music downloads (from
Apple iTunes and other online stores) and physical music sales.


Substitutes place a ceiling on the prices firms in an industry can
charge and on the profits firms in an industry can earn. In the
extreme, substitutes can ultimately replace an industry’s products
and services. This happens when a substitute is clearly superior to
previous products. Examples include electronic calculators
as substitutes for slide rules and mechanical calculators, electronic
watch movements as substitutes for pin–lever mechanical watch
movements, and compact discs as substitutes for long-playing (LP)
records (although some audiophiles continue to argue for the sonic
superiority of LPs).

Substitutes are playing an increasingly important role in reducing the
profit potential in a variety of industries. For example, in the legal
profession private mediation and arbitration services are becoming
viable substitutes for lawyers. Computerized texts are becoming
viable substitutes for printed books in the publishing industry.
Television news programs, especially services such as CNN and Fox
News, are very threatening substitutes for weekly newsmagazines,
including Time and Newsweek. In Europe, so-called superstores are
threatening smaller food shops. Minor league baseball teams are
partial substitutes for major league teams. Cable television is a
substitute for broadcast television. Groups of “big box” retailers are
substitutes for traditional shopping centers. Private mail delivery
systems (such as those in the Netherlands and Australia) are
substitutes for government postal services. Home financial planning
software is a partial substitute for professional financial planners.29
Threat of Supplier Leverage
A fourth environmental threat is supplier leverage. Suppliers
make a wide variety of raw materials, labor, and other critical assets
available to firms. Suppliers can threaten the performance of firms in
an industry by increasing the price of their supplies or by reducing
the quality of those supplies. Any profits that were being earned in
an industry can be transferred to suppliers in this way. In music
streaming, the three major record labels—to a large extent—and well
known recording artists—to a lesser extent—have significant
supplier leverage.


Some supplier attributes that can lead to high levels of threat are
listed in Table 2.4   . First, suppliers are a greater threat if the
suppliers’ industry is dominated by a small number of firms. In this
setting, a firm has little choice but to purchase supplies from these
firms. These few firms thus have enormous flexibility to charge high
prices, to reduce quality, or in other ways to squeeze the profits of
the firms in the industry to which they sell. Much of Microsoft’s power
in the software industry reflects its dominance in the operating
system market, where Windows remains the de facto standard for
most personal computers. For now, at least, if a company wants to
sell personal computers, it is going to need to interact with Microsoft.

Table 2.4 Indicators of the Threat of Supplier Leverage in an
Industry
Conversely, when a firm has the option of purchasing from a large
number of suppliers, suppliers have less leverage to threaten a firm’s
profits. For example, as the number of lawyers in the United States
has increased over the years (up 40 percent since 1981, currently
more than 1 million), lawyers and law firms have been forced to
begin competing for work. Some corporate clients have forced law
firms to reduce their hourly fees and to handle repetitive simple legal
tasks for low flat fees.30


Second, suppliers are a greater threat when what they supply is
unique or highly differentiated. There is only one LeBron James. As
a basketball player, as a spokesperson, and as a celebrity, his
unique status gives him enormous bargaining power as a supplier
and enables him to extract some of the economic profit that would
otherwise have been earned by the teams he plays for (either the
Cleveland Cavaliers or the Miami Heat) and Nike. In the same way,
Intel’s unique ability to develop, manufacture, and sell
microprocessors gives it significant bargaining power as a supplier in
the personal computer industry.

The uniqueness of suppliers can operate in almost any industry. For
example, in the highly competitive world of television talk shows,
some guests, as suppliers, can gain surprising fame for their unique
characteristics. For example, one woman was a guest on eight talk
shows. Her claim to fame: She was the tenth wife of a gay, con-man
bigamist.
Third, suppliers are a greater threat to firms in an industry when
suppliers are not threatened by substitutes. When there are no
effective substitutes, suppliers can take advantage of their position to
extract economic profits from firms they supply. Both Intel (in
microprocessors) and Microsoft (in PC operating systems) have
been accused of exploiting their unique product positions to extract
profits from customers.


When there are substitutes for supplies, supplier power is checked.
In the food container industry, for example, metal cans are
threatened by plastic containers as substitutes. In order to continue
to sell to can manufacturers, steel and aluminum companies have
had to keep their prices lower than would otherwise have been the
case. In this way, the potential power of the meal companies has
been checked by the existence of plastic as a substitute product.31


Fourth, suppliers are a greater threat to firms when they can credibly
threaten to enter into and begin competing in a firm’s industry. This is
called forward vertical integration      ; in this situation, suppliers
cease to be suppliers only and become suppliers and direct
competitors. This is what happened when Jay Z started a more
“artist friendly” streaming company, Tidal.


The threat of forward vertical integration is partially a function of
barriers to entry into an industry. When an industry has high barriers
to entry, suppliers face significant costs of forward vertical
integration, and thus forward integration is not as serious a threat to
the profits of incumbent firms. Vertical integration is discussed in
more detail in Chapter 8    .


Finally, suppliers are a threat to firms when firms are not an
important part of suppliers’ business. Steel companies, for example,
are not too concerned with losing the business of a sculptor or of a
small construction company. However, they are very concerned
about losing the business of the major can manufacturers, major
white-goods manufacturers (i.e., manufacturers of refrigerators,
washing machines, dryers, and so forth), and automobile companies.
Steel companies, as suppliers, are likely to be very accommodating
and willing to reduce prices and increase quality for can
manufacturers, white-goods manufacturers, and auto companies.
Smaller, “less important” customers, however, are likely to be subject
to greater price increases, lower-quality service, and lower-quality
products.
Threat from Buyers’ Influence
The final environmental threat is buyers. Buyers          purchase a firm’s
products or services. Whereas powerful suppliers act to increase a
firm’s costs, powerful buyers act to decrease a firm’s revenues. In
music streaming, consumers are the ultimate buyer. Some of the
important indicators of the threat of buyers are listed in Table 2.5       .


Table 2.5 Indicators of the Threat of Buyers’ Influence in an
Industry


First, if a firm has only one buyer or a small number of buyers, these
buyers can be very threatening. Firms that sell a significant amount
of their output to the U.S. Department of Defense recognize the
influence of this buyer on their operations. Reductions in defense
spending have forced defense companies to try even harder to
reduce costs and increase quality to satisfy government demands.
All these actions reduce the economic profits of these defense-
oriented companies.32 Firms that sell to large retail chains have also
found it difficult to maintain high levels of profitability. Powerful retail
firms—such as Wal-Mart and Home Depot—can make significant
and complex logistical and other demands on their suppliers, and if
suppliers fail to meet these demands, buyers can “fire” their
suppliers. These demands can have the effect of reducing the profits
of suppliers.


Second, if the products or services that are being sold to buyers are
standard and not differentiated, then the threat of buyers can be
greater. For example, farmers sell a very standard product. It is very
difficult to differentiate products such as wheat, corn, or tomatoes
(although this can be done to some extent through the development
of new strains of crops, the timing of harvests, and so forth). In
general, wholesale grocers and food brokers can always find
alternative suppliers of basic food products. These numerous
alternative suppliers increase the threat of buyers and force farmers
to keep their prices and profits low. If any one farmer attempts to
raise prices, wholesale grocers and food brokers simply purchase
their supplies from some other farmer.


Third, buyers are likely to be more of a threat when the supplies they
purchase are a significant portion of the costs of their final products.
In this context, buyers are likely to be very concerned about the
costs of their supplies and constantly on the lookout for cheaper
alternatives. For example, in the canned food industry, the cost of
the can itself can constitute up to 40 percent of a product’s final
price. Not surprisingly, firms such as Campbell Soup Company are
very concerned about keeping the price of the cans they purchase
as low as possible.33


Fourth, buyers are likely to be more of a threat when they are not
earning significant economic profits. In these circumstances, buyers
are likely to be very sensitive to costs and insist on the lowest
possible cost and the highest possible quality from suppliers. This
effect can be exacerbated when the profits suppliers earn are
greater than the profits buyers earn. In this setting, a buyer would
have a strong incentive to enter into its supplier’s business to
capture some of the economic profits being earned by the supplier.
This strategy of backward vertical integration         is discussed in
more detail in Chapter 8     .

Finally, buyers are more of a threat to firms in an industry when they
have the ability to vertically integrate backward. In this case, buyers
become both buyers and direct competitors and lock in a certain
percentage of an industry’s sales. The extent to which buyers
represent a threat to vertically integrate, in turn, depends on the
barriers to entry that are not in place in an industry. If there are
significant barriers to entry, buyers may not be able to engage in
backward vertical integration, and their threat to firms is reduced.
Environmental Threats and Average
Industry Performance
These five environmental threats have three important implications
for managers seeking to choose and implement strategies. First,
they describe the most common sources of local environmental
threat in industries. Second, they can be used to characterize the
overall level of threat in an industry. Finally, as is shown in
Table 2.6   , because the overall level of threat in an industry is,
according to S-C-P logic, related to the average level of performance
of a firm in an industry, they can also be used to anticipate the
average level of performance of firms in an industry.


Table 2.6 Estimating the Level of Average Performance in an
Industry
Of course, it will rarely be the case that all five threats in an industry
will be equally threatening at the same time. This can sometimes
complicate the anticipation of the average level of firm performance
in an industry. Consider, for example, the four industries in Table
2.6   . It is easy to anticipate the average level of performance of
firms in the first two industries: In Industry I, this performance will be
low; in Industry II, this performance will be high; however, in
Industries III and IV it is somewhat more complicated. In these mixed
situations, the real question to ask in anticipating the average
performance of firms in an industry is, “Are one or more threats in
this industry powerful enough to appropriate most of the profits that
firms in this industry might generate?” If the answer to this question
is yes, then the anticipated average level of performance will be low.
If the answer is no, then the anticipated performance will be high.


Even more fundamentally, this type of analysis can be used only to
anticipate the average level of firm performance in an industry. This
is acceptable if a firm’s industry is the primary determinant of its
overall performance. However, as described in the Research Made
Relevant     feature, research suggests that the industry a firm
operates in is far from the only determinant of its performance.
Another Environmental Force:
Complements
Objective 2.4 Discuss the role of complements in analyzing
              competition within an industry.


Professors Adam Brandenburger and Barry Nalebuff have
suggested that another force needs to be added to the analysis of
the profit potential of industries.34 These authors distinguish between
competitors and what they call a firm’s complementors. If you were
the chief executive officer of a firm, the following is how you could tell
the difference between your competitors and your complementors:
Another firm is a competitor if your customers value your product
less when they have the other firm’s product than when they have
your product alone. Direct competitors, new competitors, and
substitutes are all examples of competitors. In contrast, another firm
is a complementor if your customers value your product more
when they have this other firm’s product than when they have your
product alone. In the music streaming industry, smart phones are
complements to music streaming services.


Consider, as another example, the relationship between producers of
television programming and cable television companies. The value
of these firms’ products partially depends on the existence of one
another. Television producers need outlets for their programming.
The growth in the number of channels on cable television provides
more of these outlets and thus increases the value of these
production firms. Cable television companies can continue to add
channels, but those channels need content. So, the value of cable
television companies depends partly on the existence of television
production firms. Because the value of program-producing
companies is greater when cable television firms exist and because
the value of cable television companies is greater when program-
producing companies exist, these types of firms are complements.

Brandenburger and Nalebuff go on to argue that an important
difference between complementors and competitors is that a firm’s
complementors help to increase the size of a firm’s market, whereas
a firm’s competitors divide this market among a set of firms. Based
on this logic, these authors suggest that, although it is usually the
case that a firm will want to discourage the entry of competitors into
its market, it will usually want to encourage the entry of
complementors. Returning to the television producers/cable
television example, television producers will actually want cable
television companies to grow and prosper and constantly add new
channels, and cable television firms will want television show
producers to grow and constantly create new and innovative
programming. If the growth of either of these businesses slows, it
hurts the growth of the other.

Of course, the same firm can be a complementor for one firm and a
competitor for another. For example, the invention of satellite
television and increased popularity of DirecTV and the Dish Network
represent a competitive challenge to cable television companies.
That is, DirecTV and, say, Cox Communications are competitors.
However, DirecTV and television production companies are
complementors to each other. In deciding whether to encourage the
entry of new complementors, a firm has to weigh the extra value
these new complementors will create against the competitive impact
of this entry on a firm’s current complementors.


It is also the case that a single firm can be both a competitor and a
complementor to the same firm. This is very common in industries
where it is important to create technological standards. For example,
until a standard format for HD video on DVDs was set—through Blu-
Ray Disc technology—sales of HD DVD players and HD movies on
DVDs would not grow. Once this standard was set, growth of
products consistent with the Blu-Ray Disc standard took off.35


To develop technology standards, firms must be willing to cooperate.
This cooperation means that, with respect to the technology
standard, these firms are complementors. And, indeed, when these
firms act as complementors, their actions have the effect of
increasing the total size of the market. However, once these firms
cooperate to establish standards, they begin to compete to try to
obtain as much of the market they jointly created as possible. In this
sense, these firms are also competitors.


Understanding when firms in an industry should behave as
complementors and when they should behave as competitors is
sometimes very difficult. It is even more difficult for a firm that has
interacted with other firms in its industry as a competitor to change
its organizational structure, formal and informal control systems, and
compensation policy and start interacting with these firms as a
complementor, at least for some purposes. Learning to manage what
Brandenburger and Nalebuff call the “Jekyll and Hyde” dilemma
associated with competitors and complementors can distinguish
excellent from average firms.
Industry Structure and
Environmental Opportunities
Objective 2.5 Describe four generic industry structures and specific
              strategic opportunities in those industries.


Identifying environmental threats is only half the task in
accomplishing an external analysis. Such an analysis must also
identify opportunities. Fortunately, the same S-C-P logic that made it
possible to develop tools for the analysis of environmental threats
can also be used to develop tools for the analysis of environmental
opportunities. However, instead of identifying the threats that are
common in most industries, opportunity analysis begins by
identifying several generic industry structures and then describing
the strategic opportunities that are available in each of these
different kinds of industries.37
R E S E A R C H M A D E R E L E VA N T
The Impact of Industry and Firm Characteristics on Firm
Performance


For some time now, scholars have been interested in the
relative impact of the attributes of the industry within which a
firm operates and the attributes of the firm itself on its
performance. The first work in this area was published by
Richard Schmalansee. Using a single year’s worth of data,
Schmalansee estimated the variance in the performance of
firms that was attributable to the industries within which firms
operated versus other sources of performance variance.
Schmalansee’s conclusion was that approximately 20 percent
of the variance in firm performance was explained by the
industry within which a firm operated—a conclusion
consistent with the S-C-P model and its emphasis on industry
as a primary determinant of a firm’s performance.

Richard Rumelt identified some weaknesses in
Schmalansee’s research. Most important of these was that
Schmalansee had only one year’s worth of data with which to
examine the effects of industry and firm attributes on firm
performance. Rumelt was able to use four years’ worth of
data, which allowed him to distinguish between stable and
transient industry and firm effects on firm performance.
Rumelt’s results were consistent with Schmalansee’s in one
sense: Rumelt also found that about 16 percent of the
variance in firm performance was due to industry effects,
versus Schmalansee’s 20 percent. However, only about half
   of this industry effect was stable. The rest represented year-
   to-year fluctuations in the business conditions in an industry.
   This result is broadly inconsistent with the S-C-P model.

   Rumelt also examined the impact of firm attributes on firm
   performance and found that more than 80 percent of the
   variance in firm performance was due to these firm attributes,
   but that more than half of this 80 percent (46.38 percent) was
   due to stable firm effects. The importance of stable firm
   differences in explaining differences in firm performance is
   also inconsistent with the S-C-P framework. These results are
   consistent with another model of firm performance called the
   resource-based view, which will be described in Chapter 3         .

   Since Rumelt’s research, efforts to identify the factors that
   explain variance in firm performance have accelerated. At
   least nine articles addressing this issue have been published
   in the literature. One of the most recent of these suggests
   that, while the impact of the industry and the corporation on
   business unit performance can vary across industries and
   across corporations, overall, business unit effects are larger
   than either corporate or industry effects.36


Of course, there are many different generic industry structures.
However, four are very common and will be the focus of opportunity
analysis in this part of the book: (1) fragmented industries; (2)
emerging industries; (3) mature industries; and (4) declining
industries. The kinds of opportunities typically associated with these
industry structures are presented in Table 2.7    .
Table 2.7 Industry Structure and Environmental Opportunities

Two additional generic industry structures—network industries and
“empty core” industries—though less common than the other generic
industry structures described in this chapter, can still be important.
These types of industries, along with the kinds of opportunities that
can exist in them, are discussed in the second Strategy in Depth
feature.
S T R AT E G Y I N D E P T H




Network and Empty Core Industries

Network industries             exist when the value of a product or
service that is being sold depends, to a great extent, on the
number of these products or services being sold. For
example, a telephone is not a very valuable product if only a
few people own a telephone. It only becomes valuable once it
is widely diffused. Because of the relationship between the
value of a product or service and the number of products or
services sold, network industries are also sometimes called
increasing returns industries      .

Of course, these increasing returns can be important in the
other generic industry structures discussed in this chapter.
For example, increasing returns can be an important source
of first mover advantages in emerging industries. However,
when the primary determinant of a product or services value
is the number of these products or services sold, the industry
within which these products or services are sold is called a
network industry.

Network industries are particularly important in the digital age.
For example, as the number of people who use a particular
piece of software—either an operating system like Windows,
a PC application like Word, or an app like WhatsApp—
increases, the number of people who can communicate and
work together with this software also increases. This
increases the value of this software.

The primary opportunity in a network industry is a particular
strong form of first mover advantage. If a firm is an early
mover in a network industry and builds large market share
quickly it may obtain an almost unassailable advantage.
These strategies are sometimes called winner take all
strategies. In these settings, dominant firms can maintain
their advantage simply because new entrants, in the
beginning, simply cannot provide customers with the same
network advantages as incumbent firms. Obviously, these
dynamics have made network industries interesting to anti-
trust regulators in a variety of countries.

Empty Core Industries         exist when four conditions are
present: (1) capacity in this industry is added in large
increments, relative to demand; (2) there are large
unavoidable sunk costs associated with adding this extra
capacity; (3) demand fluctuates in difficult to predict ways;
and (4) there is limited product differentiation. The name
“empty core’ comes from the particular game theoretic model
that is used to describe competition in this industry, and refers
to the fact that in these settings there is no stable profit
making equilibrium.

Consider, for example, competition on a particular airline
route. Capacity in this route is not added one seat at a time, it
is added one airplane at a time. Once access to an airplane
for a route is acquired—usually through a lease—it has costs
associated with it—like lease payments—that exist whether
the plane is flying or not. These are unavoidable fixed costs.
Also, demand on a particular route can fluctuate, often in
difficult to predict ways. Finally, despite years of efforts trying
to convince consumers otherwise, most of us believe that one
airline’s service is not much different than another airline’s
service—so there is little product differentiation.

In this setting, imagine that demand falls below supply.
Because capacity on this route is added in large increments,
an airline company will have some difficulty reducing the
supply of airline seats for a route until supply falls low
enough. With airplanes flying half empty, an airline company
might be tempted to ground airplanes. But the company has
to pay the leases on these planes whether they fly or not. And
raising prices by offering “superior service” on an airline
doesn’t seem likely to be successful. In these settings, the
profit maximizing decision might be to fly a half empty
airplane, and lose $10,000, instead of not flying and losing
$30,000. This condition—when a firm’s profit maximizing
decision generates economic losses—is called cut throat
competition . If left unchecked, it will lead to bankruptcy—
something that has plagued the U.S. airline industry for 50
years.

As dismal as cut throat competition sounds, there are
opportunities in empty core industries. First, firms in this type
of industry can change technologies so that capacity does not
have to be added in large increments. Airlines do this by
having the option to fly smaller jets, including Boeing 737s
and various regional jets.

Second, firms in these settings can try to make demand more
predictable so that they will only add that capacity that needs
to be added. Airlines do this through demand
management       ; they increase or decrease prices on a route,
depending on historical patterns of travel on that route, to try
to make sure that supply and demand balance. This is why a
ticket may cost $200 one day and $800 the next.

Third, firms can find alternative bases of product
differentiation which can enable them to increase their prices.
Airlines do this by creating de facto geographic monopolies
around their hub and spoke systems. In general, flying from
hubs is more expensive then flying from non-hubs, because
airlines in hubs have some degree of monopoly power. Thus,
flying American Airlines from Dallas, Texas (an American
Airlines hub) to Orlando, Florida is generally more expensive
than flying American Airlines from Wichita, Kansa (a non-hub
airport) to Dallas and then on to Orlando.

Fourth, firms in these industries can try to collude—by
explicitly cooperating to reduce competition and keep prices
above the cut throat level. This strategy is discussed in the
Cooperating to Reduce Competition feature. U.S. airlines
have engaged in collusion in the past.—something that has
also attracted the interest of anti-trust agencies in several
countries.

Finally, if none of these strategies work, firms in empty core
industries can seek government regulations to keep prices
above a cut throat level. At various times, U.S. airlines have
explored the possibility of becoming re-regulated in an effort
to restore their profitability.

Airlines are not the only industry that can have the features of
an empty core. International shipping—where huge container
ships carry goods across the oceans—coal fired power
generation, traditional steel manufacturing, and nuclear power
generation can all have empty core attributes.38
Opportunities in Fragmented
Industries: Consolidation
Fragmented industries         are industries in which a large number of
small- or medium-sized firms operate and no small set of firms has
dominant market share or creates dominant technologies. Many
service industries, including small retail stores and commercial
printing, to name just a few, are fragmented industries.

Industries can be fragmented for a wide variety of reasons. For
example, the fragmented industry may have few barriers to entry,
thereby encouraging numerous small firms to enter. The industry
may have few, if any, economies of scale, and even some important
diseconomies of scale, thus encouraging firms to remain small. Also,
close local control over enterprises in an industry may be necessary
—for example, local high end restaurants—to ensure quality and to
minimize losses from theft.


The major opportunity facing firms in fragmented industries is the
implementation of strategies that begin to consolidate the industry
into a smaller number of firms. Firms that are successful in
implementing this consolidation strategy can become industry
leaders and obtain benefits from this kind of effort, if they exist.


Consolidation can occur in several ways. For example, an incumbent
firm may discover new economies of scale in an industry. In the
highly-fragmented funeral home industry, Service Corporation
International (SCI) found that the development of a chain of funeral
homes gave it advantages in acquiring key supplies (coffins) and in
the allocation of scarce resources (morticians and hearses). By
acquiring numerous previously independent funeral homes, SCI was
able to substantially reduce its costs and gain higher levels of
economic performance.39


Incumbent firms sometimes adopt new ownership structures to help
consolidate an industry. Kampgrounds of America (KOA) used
franchise agreements with local operators to provide camping
facilities to travelers in the fragmented private campgrounds industry.
KOA provided local operators with professional training, technical
skills, and access to its brand-name reputation. Local operators, in
return, provided KOA with local managers who are intensely
interested in the financial and operational success of their
campgrounds. Similar franchise agreements have been instrumental
in the consolidation of other fragmented industries, including fast
food (McDonald’s), muffler repair (Midas), and motels (La Quinta,
Holiday Inn, Howard Johnson’s).40


The benefits of implementing a consolidation strategy in a
fragmented industry turn on the advantages larger firms in such
industries gain from their larger market share. As will be discussed in
Chapter 4    , firms with large market share can have important cost
advantages. Large market share can also help a firm differentiate its
products (see Chapter 5     ) and give a firm some power of setting
prices in an industry.
Opportunities in Emerging
Industries: First-Mover
Advantages
Emerging industries       are newly created or newly re-created
industries formed by technological innovations, changes in demand,
the emergence of new customer needs, and so forth. Over the past
30 years, the world economy has been flooded by emerging
industries, including the microprocessor industry, the personal
computer industry, the medical imaging industry, and the
biotechnology industry, to name a few. Firms in emerging industries
face a unique set of opportunities, the exploitation of which can be a
source of superior performance for some time for some firms.

The opportunities that face firms in emerging industries fall into the
general category of first-mover advantages. First-mover
advantages      are advantages that come to firms that make
important strategic and technological decisions early in the
development of an industry. In emerging industries, many of the
rules of the game and standard operating procedures for competing
and succeeding have yet to be established. First-moving firms can
sometimes help establish the rules of the game and create an
industry’s structure in ways that are uniquely beneficial to them. In
general, first-mover advantages can arise from three primary
sources: (1) technological leadership; (2) preemption of strategically
valuable assets; and (3) the creation of customer-switching costs.41
First-Mover Advantages and
Technological Leadership
Firms that make early investments in particular technologies in an
industry are implementing a technological leadership strategy .
Such strategies can generate two advantages in emerging
industries. First, firms that have implemented these strategies may
obtain a low-cost position based on their greater cumulative volume
of production with a particular technology. These cost advantages
have had important competitive implications in such diverse
industries as the manufacture of titanium dioxide by DuPont and
Procter & Gamble’s competitive advantage in disposable diapers.42


Second, firms that make early investments in a technology may
obtain patent protections that enhance their performance.43 Xerox’s
patents on the xerography process and General Electric’s patent on
Edison’s original lightbulb design were important for these firms’
success when these two industries were emerging.44 However,
although there are some exceptions (e.g., the pharmaceutical
industry and specialty chemicals), patents, per se, seem to provide
relatively small profit opportunities for first-moving firms in most
emerging industries. One group of researchers found that imitators
can duplicate first movers’ patent-based advantages for about 65
percent of the first mover’s costs.45 These researchers also found
that 60 percent of all patents are imitated within four years of being
granted—without legally violating patent rights obtained by first
movers. As we will discuss in detail in Chapter 3      , patents are
rarely a source of sustained competitive advantage for firms, even in
emerging industries.
First-Mover Advantages and Preemption
of Strategically Valuable Assets
First movers that invest only in technology usually do not obtain
sustained competitive advantages. However, first movers that move
to tie up strategically valuable resources in an industry before their
full value is widely understood can gain sustained competitive
advantages. Strategically valuable assets are resources
required to successfully compete in an industry. Firms that are able
to acquire these resources have, in effect, erected formidable
barriers to imitation in an industry. Some strategically valuable
assets that can be acquired in this way include access to raw
materials, particularly favorable geographic locations, and
particularly valuable product market positions.


When an oil company such as Royal Dutch Shell acquires leases
with greater development potential than was expected by its
competition, the company is gaining access to raw materials in a
way that is likely to make it difficult for other firms to gain access to
these same raw materials. When Wal-Mart opens stores in medium-
sized cities before the arrival of its competition, Wal-Mart is making it
difficult for the competition to enter into this market. And when
breakfast cereal companies expand their product lines to include all
possible combinations of wheat, oats, bran, corn, and sugar, they,
too, are using a first-mover advantage in supermarket shelf space to
deter entry.46
First-Mover Advantages and Creating
Customer-Switching Costs
Firms can also gain first-mover advantages in an emerging industry
by creating customer-switching costs. Customer-switching
costs    exist when customers make investments in order to use a
firm’s particular products or services. These investments tie
customers to a particular firm and make it more difficult for
customers to begin purchasing from other firms.47 Such switching
costs are important factors in industries as diverse as applications
software for personal computers, prescription pharmaceuticals, and
groceries.48


In applications software for personal computers, users make
significant investments to learn how to use a particular software
package. Once computer users have learned how to operate
particular software, they are unlikely to switch to new software, even
if that new software system is superior to what they currently use.
Such a switch would require learning the new software and
determining how it is similar to and different from the old software.
For these reasons, some computer users will continue to use
outdated software, even though new software performs much better.


Similar switching costs can exist in some segments of the
prescription pharmaceutical industry. Once medical doctors become
familiar with a particular drug, its applications, and side effects, they
are sometimes reluctant to change to a new drug, even if that new
drug promises to be more effective than the older, more familiar one.
Trying the new drug requires learning about its properties and side
effects. Even if the new drug has received government approvals, its
use requires doctors to be willing to “experiment” with the health of
their patients. Given these issues, many physicians are unwilling to
rapidly adopt new drug therapies. This is one reason that
pharmaceutical firms spend so much time and money using their
sales forces to educate their physician customers. This kind of
education is necessary if a doctor is going to be willing to switch from
an old drug to a new one.


Customer-switching costs can even play a role in the grocery store
industry. Each grocery store has a particular layout of products.
Once customers learn where different products in a particular store
are located, they are not likely to change stores because they would
then have to relearn the location of products. Many customers want
to avoid the time and frustration associated with wandering around a
new store looking for some obscure product. Indeed, the cost of
switching stores may be large enough to enable some grocery stores
to charge higher prices than would be the case without customer-
switching costs.
First-Mover Disadvantages
Of course, the advantages of first moving in emerging industries
must be balanced against the risks associated with exploiting this
opportunity. Emerging industries are characterized by a great deal of
uncertainty. When first-moving firms are making critical strategic
decisions, it may not be at all clear what the right decisions are. In
such highly uncertain settings, a reasonable strategic alternative to
first moving may be retaining flexibility. Where first-moving firms
attempt to resolve the uncertainty they face by making decisions
early and then trying to influence the evolution of an emerging
industry, they use flexibility to resolve this uncertainty by delaying
decisions until the economically correct path is clear and then
moving quickly to take advantage of that path. These issues will be
discussed in detail in Chapter 6     .
Opportunities in Mature
Industries: Product Refinement,
Service, and Process Innovation
Emerging industries are often formed by the creation of new
products or technologies that radically alter the rules of the game in
an industry. However, over time, as these new ways of doing
business become widely understood, as technologies diffuse through
competitors, and as the rate of innovation in new products and
technologies drops, an industry begins to enter the mature phase of
its development. As described in the Strategy in the Emerging
Enterprise feature, this change in the nature of a firm’s industry can
be difficult to recognize and can create both strategic and
operational problems for a firm.


Common characteristics of mature industries           include: (1) slowing
growth in total industry demand; (2) the development of experienced
repeat customers; (3) a slowdown in increases in production
capacity; (4) a slowdown in the introduction of new products or
services; (5) an increase in the amount of international competition;
and (6) an overall reduction in the profitability of firms in the
industry.49


The fast-food industry in the United States has matured over the last
several years. In the 1960s, the United States had only three large
national fast-food chains: McDonald’s, Burger King, and Dairy
Queen. Through the 1980s, all three of these chains grew rapidly,
although the rate of growth at McDonald’s outstripped the growth
rate of the other two firms. During this time period, however, other
fast-food chains also entered the market. These included some
national chains, such as Kentucky Fried Chicken, Wendy’s, and Taco
Bell, and some strong regional chains, such as Jack in the Box, In-N-
Out Burger, and Five Guys Hamburgers. By the early 1990s, growth
in this industry had slowed considerably. McDonald’s announced that
it was having difficulty finding locations for new McDonald’s that did
not impinge on the sales of already existing McDonald’s. Except for
non-U.S. operations, where competition in the fast-food industry is
not as mature, the profitability of most U.S. fast-food companies did
not grow as much in the 1990s as it did in the 1960s through the
1980s. Indeed, by the mid 2000’s, many fast food chains were
struggling to increase their profitability.50


Opportunities for firms in mature industries typically shift from the
development of new technologies and products in an emerging
industry to a greater emphasis on refining a firm’s current products,
an emphasis on increasing the quality of service, and a focus on
reducing manufacturing costs and increased quality through process
innovations.
Refining Current Products
In mature industries, such as home detergents, motor oil, and
kitchen appliances, few, if any, major technological breakthroughs
are likely. However, this does not mean that innovation is not
occurring in these industries. Innovation in these industries focuses
on extending and improving current products and technologies. In
home detergents, innovation recently has focused on changes in
packaging and on selling more highly concentrated detergents in
small packets that are thrown into washing machines. In motor oil,
packaging changes (from fiber foil cans to plastic containers),
additives that keep oil cleaner longer, and oil formulated to operate in
four-cylinder engines are recent examples of this kind of innovation.
In kitchen appliances, recent improvements include the availability of
refrigerators with crushed ice and water through the door,
commercial-grade stoves for home use, and dishwashers that
automatically adjust the cleaning cycle depending on how dirty the
dishes are.51 In fast foods, firms like McDonald’s and Wendy’s have
introduced healthy, more adult-oriented food to complement their kid-
friendly hamburger-heavy menus. This movement has helped
restore the profitability of these firms.
Emphasis on Service
When firms in an industry have only limited ability to invest in radical
new technologies and products, efforts to differentiate products often
turn toward the quality of customer service. A firm that is able to
develop a reputation for high-quality customer service may be able
to obtain superior performance even though its products are not
highly differentiated.


This emphasis on service has become very important in a wide
variety of industries. For example, in the restaurant industry, one of
the major reasons for slower growth in the fast-food segment has
been growth in the so-called “fast casual dining” segment. This
segment includes restaurants such as Panera Bread, Chipotle, and
Café Rio—where customers still order and collect food from a
counter, but where the both the quality of the food and its
presentation is perceived as higher than what is the case in the fast
food segment. Moreover, where fast food restaurants are designed
to appeal to children—many McDonald’s have playgrounds located
next to the restaurant—many fast casual dining restaurants have
more comfortable seating, are decorated with muted tones and
comfortable chairs, fire places that provide warmth and ambience on
cold winter nights, and relaxing background music. Combining the
speed and convenience of fast food with the food quality and
ambience of casual dining (e.g., Applebee’s and Chili’s), fast casual
dining is the fastest growing segment of the restaurant industry.52
Process Innovation
A firm’s processes     are the activities it engages in to design,
produce, and sell its products or services. Process innovation          ,
then, is a firm’s effort to refine and improve its current processes.
Several authors have studied the relationship between process
innovation, product innovation, and the maturity of an industry.53 This
work suggests that, in the early stages of industry development,
product innovation is very important. However, over time product
innovation becomes less important, and process innovations
designed to reduce manufacturing costs, increase product quality,
and streamline management become more important. In mature
industries, firms can often gain an advantage by manufacturing the
same product as competitors, but at a lower cost. Alternatively, firms
can manufacture a product that is perceived to be of higher quality
and do so at a competitive cost. Process innovations facilitate both
the reduction of costs and the increase in quality.


The role of process innovation in more mature industries is perhaps
best exemplified by the improvement in quality in U.S. automobiles.
In the 1980s, Japanese firms such as Nissan, Toyota, and Honda
sold cars that were of significantly higher quality than those
produced by U.S. firms General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler. In the
face of that competitive disadvantage, the U.S. firms engaged in
numerous process reforms to improve the quality of their cars. In the
1980s, U.S. manufacturers were cited for car body panels that did
not fit well, bumpers that were hung crookedly on cars, and the
wrong engines being placed in cars. Today, the differences in quality
between newly manufactured U.S. and Japanese automobiles are
very small. Indeed, one well-known judge of initial manufacturing
quality—J. D. Powers—now focuses on items such as the quality of
a car’s cup holders and the maximum distance at which a car’s
keyless entry system still works to establish quality rankings. For
many U.S. manufacturers, the really significant quality issues of the
1980s are virtually gone.54
Opportunities in Declining
Industries: Leadership, Niche,
Harvest, and Divestment
A declining industry      is an industry that has experienced an
absolute decline in unit sales over a sustained period of time.55
Obviously, firms in a declining industry face more threats than
opportunities. Rivalry in a declining industry is likely to be very high,
as is the threat of buyers, suppliers, and substitutes. However, even
though threats are significant, firms do have opportunities they can
exploit. The major strategic opportunities that firms in this kind of
industry face are leadership, niche, harvest, and divestment.
Market Leadership
An industry in decline is often characterized by overcapacity in
manufacturing, distribution, and so forth. Reduced demand often
means that firms in a declining industry will have to endure a
significant shakeout period       until overcapacity is reduced and
capacity is brought in line with demand. After the shakeout, a smaller
number of lean and focused firms may enjoy a relatively benign
environment with few threats and several opportunities. If the
industry structure that is likely to exist after a shakeout is quite
attractive, firms in an industry before the shakeout may have an
incentive to weather the storm of decline—to survive until the
situation improves to the point that they can begin to earn higher
profits.


If a firm has decided to wait out the storm of decline in hopes of
better environmental conditions in the future, it should consider
various steps to increase its chances of survival. Most important of
these is that a firm must establish itself as a market leader          in the
pre-shakeout industry, most typically by becoming the firm with the
largest market share in that industry. The purpose of becoming a
market leader is not to facilitate tacit collusion or to obtain lower
costs from economies of scale (see Chapter 4         ). Rather, in a
declining industry the leader’s objective should be to try to facilitate
the exit of firms that are not likely to survive a shakeout, thereby
obtaining a more favorable competitive environment as quickly as
possible.
Market leaders in declining industries can facilitate exit in a variety of
ways, including purchasing and then deemphasizing competitors’
product lines, purchasing and retiring competitors’ manufacturing
capacity, manufacturing spare parts for competitors’ product lines,
and sending unambiguous signals of their intention to stay in an
industry and remain a dominant firm. For example, overcapacity
problems in the European petrochemical industry were partially
resolved when Imperial Chemical Industries (ICI) traded its
polyethylene plants to British Petroleum for BP’s polyvinylchloride
(PVC) plants. In this case, both firms were able to close some
excess capacity in specific markets (polyethylene and PVC), while
sending clear signals of their intention to remain in these markets.56
Market Niche
A firm in a declining industry following a leadership strategy attempts
to facilitate exit by other firms, but a firm following a niche
strategy     in a declining industry reduces its scope of operations
and focuses on narrow segments of the declining industry. If only a
few firms choose a particular niche, then these firms may have a
favorable competitive setting, even though the industry as a whole is
facing shrinking demand.


Two industries where this niche strategy has emerged are analog
photography and analogue music recording (i.e., vinyl records). Both
photography and music recording are overwhelmingly dominated by
digital formats. But analog devices in these markets have not
completely disappeared. For example, at least two firms—a Kodak
spinoff called Alaris and an entrepreneurial startup called
Lomography—continue to manufacture photographic film for
professional and amateur photographers. These photographers are
entranced by the quality, beauty, and tonal depth possible with film-
based photos, and are convinced that these elements cannot be
easily replicated by digital photography. Vinyl records—LPs, EPs,
and even 45s, are seeing a resurgence in demand. Some
audiophiles believe that the tonal quality of recordings on vinyl is
superior to the tonal quality of CDs. In fact, vinyl record sales
increased 23.9% in 2015, although they still make up less than 8% of
physical album sales in the U.S., and less than 5% in the U.K. But
retail firms like Urban Outfitters and Barnes and Noble have seen
enough potential in this niche market, and have recently begun
selling vinyl records.57
Harvest
Leadership and niche strategies, though differing along several
dimensions, have one attribute in common: Firms that implement
these strategies intend to remain in the industry despite its decline.
Firms pursuing a harvest strategy       in a declining industry do not
expect to remain in the industry over the long term. Instead, they
engage in a long, systematic, phased withdrawal, extracting as much
value as possible during the withdrawal period.


The extraction of value during the implementation of a harvest
strategy presumes that there is some value to harvest. Thus, firms
that implement this strategy must ordinarily have enjoyed at least
some profits at some time in their history, before the industry began
declining. Firms can implement a harvest strategy by reducing the
range of products they sell, reducing their distribution network,
eliminating less profitable customers, reducing product quality,
reducing service quality, deferring maintenance and equipment
repair, and so forth. In the end, after a period of harvesting in a
declining industry, firms can either sell their operations (to a market
leader) or simply cease operations.


In principle, the harvest opportunity sounds simple, but in practice it
presents some significant management challenges. The movement
toward a harvest strategy often means that some of the
characteristics of a business that have long been a source of pride to
managers may have to be abandoned. Thus, where prior to harvest
a firm may have specialized in high-quality service, quality products,
and excellent customer value, during the harvest period service
quality may fall, product quality may deteriorate, and prices may rise.
These changes may be difficult for managers to accept, and higher
turnover may be the result. It is also difficult to hire quality managers
into a harvesting business because such individuals are likely to
seek greater opportunities elsewhere.


For these reasons, few firms explicitly announce a harvest strategy.
However, examples can be found. GE seemed to follow a harvest
strategy in the electric turbine business. Also, United States Steel
and the International Steel Group seemed to follow this strategy in
certain segments of the steel market.58
Divestment
The final opportunity facing firms in a declining industry is
divestment. Like a harvest strategy, the objective of divestment        is
to extract a firm from a declining industry. However, unlike harvest,
divestment occurs quickly, often soon after a pattern of decline has
been established. Firms without established competitive advantages
may find divestment a superior option to harvest because they have
few competitive advantages they can exploit through harvesting.


In the 1980s, GE used this rapid divestment approach to virtually
abandon the consumer electronics business. Total demand in this
business was more or less stable during the 1980s, but competition
(mainly from Asian manufacturers) increased substantially. Rather
than remain in this business, GE sold most of its consumer
electronics operations and used the capital to enter into the medical
imaging industry, where this firm has found an environment more
conducive to superior performance.59


In the defense business, divestment was the stated strategy of
General Dynamics, at least in some of its business segments.
General Dynamics’ managers recognized early on that the changing
defense industry could not support all the incumbent firms. When
General Dynamics concluded that it could not remain a leader in
some of its businesses, it decided to divest those and concentrate on
a few remaining businesses. Since 1991, General Dynamics has
sold businesses worth more than $2.83 billion, including its missile
systems business, its Cessna aircraft division, and its tactical aircraft
division (maker of the very successful F-16 aircraft and partner in the
development of the next generation of fighter aircraft, the F-22).
These divestitures created significant value for General Dynamics’
shareholders: its stock went from $25 per share before divestment to
a high of $110 per share after divestment. During this time period,
General Dynamics’ stock provided a total return to stockholders of
555 percent.60


Of course, not all divestments are caused by industry decline.
Sometimes firms divest certain operations to focus their efforts on
remaining operations, sometimes they divest to raise capital, and
sometimes they divest to simplify operations. These types of
divestments reflect a firm’s diversification strategy and are explored
in detail in Chapter 8   .
Summary
The strategic management process requires that a firm engage in an
analysis of threats and opportunities in its competitive environment
before a strategic choice can be made. This analysis begins with an
understanding of the firm’s general environment. This general
environment has six components: technological change,
demographic trends, cultural trends, economic climate, legal and
political conditions, and specific international events. Although some
of these components of the general environment can affect a firm
directly, more frequently they affect a firm through their impact on its
local environment.


The S-C-P model can be used to develop tools for analyzing threats
in a firm’s competitive environment. The most influential of these
tools focuses on five environmental threats to the profitability of firms
in an industry. The five threats are: threat from new competitors,
threat from existing direct competitors, threat from superior or low
cost substitutes, threat of supplier leverage, and the threat from
buyers’ influence. The threat of new competition depends on the
existence and “height” of barriers to entry. Common barriers to entry
include economies of scale, product differentiation, cost advantages
independent of scale, and government regulation. The threat of
current direct competitors depends on the number and
competitiveness of firms in an industry. This threat is high in an
industry when there are large numbers of competing firms,
competing firms are roughly the same size and have the same
influence, growth in an industry is slow, there is no product
differentiation, and productive capacity is added in large increments.
The threat of superior substitutes depends on how close substitute
products and services are—in performance and cost—to products
and services in an industry. Whereas direct competitors meet the
same customer needs in approximately the same way, substitutes
meet the same customer needs, but do so in very different ways.
The threat of supplier leverage in an industry depends on the
number and distinctiveness of the products suppliers provide to an
industry. The threat of supplier leverage increases when a supplier’s
industry is dominated by a few firms, when suppliers sell unique or
highly differentiated products, when suppliers are not threatened by
substitutes, when suppliers threaten forward vertical integration, and
when firms are not important customers for suppliers. Finally, the
threat of buyers’ influence depends on the number and size of an
industry’s customers. The threat of buyers’ influence is greater when
the number of buyers is small, products sold to buyers are
undifferentiated and standard, products sold to buyers are a
significant percentage of a buyer’s final costs, buyers are not earning
significant profits, and buyers threaten backward vertical integration.
Taken together, the level of these threats in an industry can be used
to determine the expected average performance of firms in an
industry.

One additional force in a firm’s environment is complementors.
Where competitors compete with a firm to divide profits in a market,
complementors increase the total size of the market. If you are a
CEO of a firm, you know that another firm is a complementor when
the value of your products to your customers is higher in combination
with this other firm’s products than when customers use your
products alone. Where firms have strong incentives to reduce the
entry of competitors, they can sometimes have strong incentives to
increase the entry of complementors.


The S-C-P model can also be used to develop tools for analyzing
strategic opportunities in an industry. This is done by identifying
generic industry structures and the strategic opportunities available
in these different kinds of industries. Four common industry
structures are fragmented industries, emerging industries, mature
industries, and declining industries. The primary opportunity in
fragmented industries is consolidation. In emerging industries, the
most important opportunity is first-mover advantages from
technological leadership, preemption of strategically valuable assets,
or creation of customer-switching costs. In mature industries, the
primary opportunities are product refinement, service, and process
innovation. In declining industries, opportunities include market
leadership, niche, harvest, and divestment.
MyLab Management
Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management to
complete the problems marked with this icon   .
Challenge Questions
   2.1. Your former college roommate calls you and asks to
   borrow $10,000 so that he can open a pizza restaurant in his
   hometown. In justifying this request, he argues that there
   must be significant demand for pizza and other fast food in his
   hometown because there are lots of such restaurants already
   there, and three or four new ones are opening each month.
   He also argues that demand for convenience food will
   continue to increase, and he points to the large number of
   firms that now sell frozen dinners in grocery stores. What are
   the risks involved in choosing to lend him money?
      2.2. One potential threat in an industry is buyers’ influence.
   Yet unless buyers are satisfied, they are likely to look for
   satisfaction elsewhere. Can the fact that buyers can be
   threats be reconciled with the need to satisfy buyers?
   2.3. Government policies can have a significant impact on the
   average profitability of firms in an industry. Government,
   however, is not included as a potential threat. Should the
   model be expanded to include government? Why or why not?
   2.4. If an industry has large numbers of complementors, does
   that make it more attractive or less attractive or does it have
   no impact on the industry’s attractiveness? Justify your
   answer.
   2.5. Opportunities analysis seems to suggest that strategic
   opportunities are available in almost any industry, including
declining ones. If that is true, is it fair to say that there is really
no such thing as an unattractive industry?
2.6. If there is really no such thing as an unattractive industry,
what implications does this have for the applicability of
environmental threat analysis?
2.7. Describe an industry that has no opportunities.
2.8. Describe when the evolution of industry structure from an
emerging industry to a mature industry to a declining industry
is inevitable.
Problem Set
  2.9. Perform an analysis of the profit potential on the following
  two industries:
The Pharmaceutical Industry
The pharmaceutical industry consists of firms that develop,
patent, and sell drugs. Although this industry does not have
significant production economies of scale, it does have
important know how efficiencies in research and
development. Product differentiation exists as well because
firms often sell branded products. Firms compete in research
and development. However, once a product is developed and
patented, competition is significantly reduced. Recently, the
increased availability of generic, nonbranded drugs has
threatened the profitability of some drug lines. Once an
effective drug is developed, few, if any, alternatives to that
drug usually are available, at least until the drug goes off
patent. Most drugs are manufactured with commodity
chemicals that are available from numerous suppliers. Major
final customers include doctors and patients. Recently,
increased costs have led the federal government and
insurance companies to pressure drug companies to reduce
their prices.
The Pharmaceutical
Distribution Industry
The pharmaceutical distribution industry consists of firms that
buy drugs from pharmaceutical firms and then sell and
distribute those drugs to retail drug stores, hospitals, and to
hundreds of thousands of other outlets where drugs are sold
to consumers. Because the marginal cost of pushing another
drug through a firm’s established distribution network is
almost zero, there are substantial economies of scale in this
industry. Historically, there were over 350 pharmaceutical
distribution firms. Through a series of acquisitions, this
industry is currently dominated by three firms with over 95
percent of the total market share. Competition among these
firms can be fierce—firms have sometimes set their prices
below their marginal costs to retain contacts with
pharmaceutical firms (on the supply side) and consolidating
retail drug stores (on the demand side). Despite the high cost
of some pharmaceuticals, they are often a less costly
alternative to surgery and more invasive procedures often
performed in hospitals.
2.10. Perform an opportunities analysis on the following
industries:
    a. The U.S. airline industry
    b. The U.S. beer industry
    c. The U.S. property and casualty insurance industry
    d. The worldwide portable digital media (e.g., flash drives)
       industry
    e. The worldwide small-package overnight delivery
       industry

2.11. For each of the following firms, identify at least two
competitors (rivals, new entrants, or substitutes) and two
complementors.
    a. Ford Motor Company
    b. Microsoft
    c. Dell
    d. Boeing
    e. McDonald’s
MyLab Management
Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management for
Auto-graded writing questions as well as the following
Assisted-graded writing questions:

      2.12. Describe a situation where a single firm
      can be both a competitor and a complementor
      to the same firm.
      2.13. Under what conditions can firms gain first-
      mover advantages in an emerging industry?
End Notes
1    G. Vroom and I Sastre. (2016) Spotify in 2016: Facing Increased Competition. SM-
1642-E, IESE Business School, Barcelona, Spain; R. Cookson, “Losses Point to Bleak
Future for Music Streaming Services,” Financial Times, December 3, 2015, retrieved
November 7, 2016.
2    See (2003). The big book of business quotations. New York: Basic Books, p. 209.
3    See Weintraub, A. (2004). “Repairing the engines of life.” BusinessWeek, May 24,
2004, pp. 99+ for a discussion of recent developments in biotechnology research and the
business challenges they have created.
4    The data reported here are from an EY (formerly Ernst and Young) survey of 1,200
managers and non-managers across a variety of industries, reported in 2013. See V. Giong
(2013) “Here are the Strengths and Weaknesses of Millennials, Gen X, and Boomers,”
Business Insiders, September 9, 2013, retrieved November 7, 2016.
5    These results are described in a report prepared by Oracle for its banking customers.
This report can be found at: www.oracle.com/US/industries/financialservices/gen-y-
survey-report/65297.pdf retrieved November 7, 2016
6    Census.Gov
7    See E. Bryan “Hola: P & G Seeks Latino Shoppers,” The Wall Street Journal,
September 15, 2011, retrieved on November 7, 2016
8    These and other cultural differences are described in Rugman, A., and R. Hodgetts.
(1995). International business. New York: McGraw-Hill.
9    Early contributors to the structure-conduct-performance model include Mason, E. S.
(1939). “Price and production policies of large scale enterprises.” American Economic
Review, 29, pp. 61–74; and Bain, J. S. (1956). Barriers to new competition. Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press. The major developments in this framework are summarized in
Bain, J. S. (1968). Industrial organization. New York: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.; and Scherer,
F. M. (1980). Industrial market structure and economic performance. Boston: Houghton
Mifflin. The links between this framework and work in strategic management are discussed
by Porter, M. E. (1981a). “The contribution of industrial organization to strategic
management.” Academy of Management Review, 6, pp. 609–620; and Barney, J. B.
(1986c). “Types of competition and the theory of strategy: Toward an integrative framework.”
Academy of Management Review, 1, pp. 791–800.
10     J. B. Barney (1986). “Types of competition and the theory of strategy.” Academy of
Management Review, 11, pp. 791–800; H. Demsetz (1973). “Industry structure, market
rivalry, and public policy.” Journal of Law and Economics, 16, pp. 1–9; M. Porter (1981).
“The contribution of industrial organization to strategic management.” Academy of
Management Review, 6, pp. 609–620.
11     See, for example, Porter, M. E. (1979). “How competitive forces shape strategy.”
Harvard Business Review, March–April, pp. 137–156; and Porter, M. E. (1980). Competitive
strategy. New York: Free Press.
12     J. Barney (2007). Gaining and sustaining competitive advantage, 3rd ed. Upper
Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Higher Education.
13     These barriers were originally proposed by Bain, J. S. (1968). Industrial organization.
New York: John Wiley & Sons, Inc. It is actually possible to estimate the “height” of barriers
to entry in an industry by comparing the cost of entry into an industry with barriers and the
cost of entry into that industry if barriers did not exist. The difference between these costs is
the “height” of the barriers to entry.
14     Another alternative would be for a firm to own and operate more than one plant. If
there are economies of scope in this industry, a firm might be able to enter and earn above-
normal profits. An economy of scope exists when the value of operating in two businesses
simultaneously is greater than the value of operating in these two businesses separately.
The concept of economy of scope is explored in more detail in Part 3 of this book.
15     See Ghemawat, P., and H. J. Stander III. (1992). “Nucor at a crossroads.” Harvard
Business School Case No. 9-793-039.
16     See Montgomery, C. A., and B. Wernerfelt. (1991). “Sources of superior performance:
Market share versus industry effects in the U.S. brewing industry.” Management Science,
37, pp. 954–959.
17     Sorkin, A. R., and M. Merced. (2008). “Brewer bids $46 billion for Anheuser-Busch.”
New York Times, June 12. http://www.nytimes.com/2008/06/12/business/
worldbusiness/12beer.html?_r=0
18     Stecklow, S. (1999). “Gallo woos French, but don’t expect Bordeaux by the jug.” The
Wall Street Journal, March 26, pp. A1+.
19     Wingfield, N. (2013). “Intertrust sues Apple over patent violations.” Bcts.blogs.
NYTimes.com, March 20; Swisler, K. (2012). “Yahoo sues Facebook for patent
infringement.” Allthings.com, March 12; Fingas, J. (2013). “Google countersues BT.”
www.engadget.com, February 13; “Boston University sues Apple for patent infringement.”
(2013). www.macworld.com, July 3; “Nokia taking HTC to court over patent violations.”
(2013). www.mobilemg.com, May 25;Dobie, A. (2013). “Apple looks to add Sony Galaxy 54
to patent infringement suit.”www.androidcentral.com, May 14; “Bad Apple.” (2013).
www.catholic.org, June 5.
20    See S. Brachmen. “2015 Litigation Trends,” ipwatchdog.com, January 8, 2016.
Retrieved November 7, 2016.
21    See Kogut, B., and U. Zander. (1992). “Knowledge of the firm, combinative
capabilities, and the replication of technology.” Organization Science, 3, pp. 383–397; and
Dierickx, I., and K. Cool. (1989). “Asset stock accumulation and sustainability of competitive
advantage.” Management Science, 35, pp. 1504–1511. Both emphasize the importance of
know-how as a barrier to entry into an industry. More generally, intangible resources are
seen as particularly important sources of sustained competitive advantage. This will be
discussed in more detail in Chapter 3         .
22    See Polanyi, M. (1962). Personal knowledge: Towards a post-critical philosophy.
London: Routledge & Kegan Paul; and Itami, H. (1987). Mobilizing invisible assets.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
23    See Henderson, R., and I. Cockburn. (1994). “Measuring competence: Exploring firm
effects in pharmaceutical research.” Strategic Management Journal, 15, pp. 361–374. Entry
by pharmaceutical firms specializing just in research has been more common than entry by
integrated research and development firms.
24    See Scherer, F. M. (1980). Industrial market structure and economic performance.
Boston: Houghton Mifflin.
25    See Z. Epstein. “You Won’t Believe How Little Windows PC Makers Earn for Each PC
Sold,” bgr.com, January 10, 2014. Retrieved on November 7, 2016.
26    Chartier, John. (2002). “Burger battles.” CNN/Money, http://money.cnn.com,
December 11.
27    See Ghemawat, P., and A. McGahan. (1995). “The U.S. airline industry in 1995.”
Harvard Business School Case No. 9-795-113.
28    Labich, K. (1992). “Airbus takes off.” Fortune, June 1, pp. 102–108.
29    See Pollock, E. J. (1993). “Mediation firms alter the legal landscape.” The Wall Street
Journal, March 22, p. B1; Cox, M. (1993). “Electronic campus: Technology threatens to
shatter the world of college textbooks.” The Wall Street Journal, June 1, p. A1; Reilly, P. M.
(1993). “At a crossroads: The instant-new age leaves Time magazine searching for a
mission.” The Wall Street Journal, May 12, p. A1; Rohwedder, C. (1993). “Europe’s smaller
food shops face finis.” The Wall Street Journal, May 12, p. B1; Fatsis, S. (1995). “Major
leagues keep minors at a distance.” The Wall Street Journal, November 8, pp. B1+; Norton,
E., and G. Stem. (1995). “Steel and aluminum vie over every ounce in a car’s construction.”
The Wall Street Journal, May 9, pp. A1+; Paré, T. P. (1995). “Why the banks lined up
against Gates.” Fortune, May 29, p. 18 “Hitting the mail on the head.” The Economist, April
30, 1994, pp. 69–70; Pacelle, M. (1996). “‘Big Boxes’ by discounters are booming.” The
Wall Street Journal, January 17, p. A2; and Pope, K., and L. Cauley. (1998). “In battle for TV
ads, cable is now the enemy.” The Wall Street Journal, May 6, pp. B1+.
30    Tully, S. (1992). “How to cut those #$%* legal costs.” Fortune, September 21, pp.
119–124.
31    See DeWitt, W. (1997). “Crown Cork & Seal/Carnaud Metalbox.” Harvard Business
School Case No. 9-296-019.
32    Perry, N. J. (1993). “What’s next for the defense industry.” Fortune, February 22, pp.
94–100.
33    See “Crown Cork and Seal in 1989.” Harvard Business School Case No. 5-395-224.
34    See Brandenburger, A., and B. Nalebuff. (1996). Co-opetition. New York: Doubleday.
35    See R. Lawler (April 16, 2009) “Analyst: ’09 Blue Ray sales Double Those of ‘08”
Engagent.AOL. Retrieved November 8, 2016.
36    R. P. Rumelt (1991). “How much does industry matter?” Strategic Management
Journal, 12, pp. 167–185; R. Schmalansee (1985). “Do markets differ much?” American
Economic Review, 75, pp. 341–351; V. F. Misangyi, H. Elms, T. Greckhamer, and J. A.
Lepine (2006). “A new perspective on a fundamental debate: A multilevel approach to
industry, corporate, and business unit effects.” Strategic Management Journal, 27(6), pp.
571–590.
37    This approach to studying opportunities was also first suggested in Porter, M. E.
(1980). Competitive strategy. New York: Free Press.
38    K. Conner (1995) “Obtaining Strategic Advantage from Being Imitated,” Management
Science, 41, 209 – 225; M. Mandel (2000) “Anti-trust in the Digital Age,” Businessweek,
May 15, 51; L. Tesler (1978) Economic Theory and the Core. Chicago: Chicago; W.
Sjostrom (1989) “Collusion in Ocean Shipping,” Journal of Political Economy, 97, 1160 –
1179; A. McWilliams (1990) “Rethinking Horizontal Market Restrictions: In Defense of
Cooperation in Empty Core Markets,” Quarterly Review of Economics and Business, 30, 3–
14
39    Jacob, R. (1992). “Service Corp. International: Acquisitions done the right way.”
Fortune, November 16, p. 96.
40    Porter, M. E. (1980). Competitive strategy. New York: Free Press.
41    For the definitive discussion of first-mover advantages, see Lieberman, M., and C.
Montgomery. (1988). “First-mover advantages.” Strategic Management Journal, 9, pp. 41–
58.
42    See Ghemawat, P. (1991). Commitment. New York: Free Press.
43    See Gilbert, R. J., and D. M. Newbery. (1982). “Preemptive patenting and the
persistence of monopoly.” American Economic Review, 72(3), pp. 514–526.
44    See Bresnahan, T. F. (1985). “Post-entry competition in the plain paper copier
market.” American Economic Review, 85, pp. 15–19, for a discussion of Xerox’s patents;
and Bright, A. A. (1949). The electric lamp industry. New York: Macmillan, for a discussion
of General Electric’s patents.
45    See Mansfield, E., M. Schwartz, and S. Wagner. (1981). “Imitation costs and patents:
An empirical study.” Economic Journal, 91, pp. 907–918.
46    See Main, O. W. (1955). The Canadian nickel industry. Toronto: University of Toronto
Press, for a discussion of asset preemption in the oil and gas industry; Ghemawat, P.
(1986). “Wal-Mart store’s discount operations.” Harvard Business School Case No. 9-387-
018, for Wal-Mart’s preemption strategy; Schmalansee, R. (1978). “Entry deterrence in the
ready-to-eat breakfast cereal industry.” Bell Journal of Economics, 9(2), pp. 305–327; and
Robinson, W. T., and C. Fornell. (1985). “Sources of market pioneer advantages in
consumer goods industries.” Journal of Marketing Research, 22(3), pp. 305–307, for a
discussion of preemption in the breakfast cereal industry. In this latter case, the preempted
valuable asset is shelf space in grocery stores.
47    Klemperer, P. (1986). “Markets with consumer switching costs.” Doctoral thesis,
Graduate School of Business, Stanford University; and Wernerfelt, B. (1986). “A special
case of dynamic pricing policy.” Management Science, 32, pp. 1562–1566.
48    See Gross, N. (1995). “The technology paradox.” BusinessWeek, March 6, pp. 691–
719; Bond, R. S., and D. F. Lean. (1977). Sales, promotion, and product differentiation in
two prescription drug markets. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Federal Trade Commission;
Montgomery, D. B. (1975). “New product distribution: An analysis of supermarket buyer
decision.” Journal of Marketing Research, 12, pp. 255–264; Ries, A., and J. Trout. (1986).
Marketing warfare. New York: McGraw-Hill; and Davidson, J. H. (1976). “Why most new
consumer brands fail.” Harvard Business Review, 54, March–April, pp. 117–122, for a
discussion of switching costs in these industries.
49      Porter, M. E. (1980). Competitive strategy. New York: Free Press.
50      Gibson, R. (1991). “McDonald’s insiders increase their sales of company’s stock.”
The Wall Street Journal, June 14, p. A1; and Chartier, J. (2002). “Burger battles.”
CNN/Money, http://money.cnn.com, December 11. McDonald’s lost money for only one
quarter. It has since repositioned itself with nice upscale fast foods and has returned to
profitability.
51      Descriptions of these product refinements can be found in Demetrakakes, P. (1994).
“Household-chemical makers concentrate on downsizing.” Packaging, 39(1), p. 41 Reda, S.
(1995). “Motor oil: Hands-on approach.” Stores, 77(5), pp. 48–49; and Quinn, J. (1995).
“KitchenAid.” Incentive, 169(5), pp. 46–47.
52      See “Fast Casual is the Fastest Growing Foodservice Segment Globally,”
qsrmagazine.com, April 20, 2016. Retrieved November 9, 2016.
53      See Hayes, R. H., and S. G. Wheelwright. (1979). “The dynamics of process-product
life cycles.” Harvard Business Review, March–April, p. 127.
54      See www.jdpowers.com. The exception to this conclusion about U.S. car
manufactures seems to be Fiat Chrysler. See J. Stoll (June 17, 2015) “Fiat Chrysler Brands
Get Poor Ratings in Quality Study,” Wall Street Journal. Retrieved November 9, 2016.
55      See Porter, M. E. (1980). Competitive strategy. New York: Free Press; and Harrigan,
K. R. (1980). Strategies for declining businesses. Lexington, MA: Lexington Books.
56      See Aguilar, F. J., J. L. Bower, and B. Gomes-Casseres. (1985). “Restructuring
European petrochemicals: Imperial Chemical Industries, P.L.C.” Harvard Business School
Case No. 9-385-203.
57      See Harrigan, K. R. (1980). Strategies for declining businesses. Lexington, MA:
Lexington Books. For the photographic film industry, see petapixel.com/film-photography-
making-strong-comeback (Accessed January 5, 2017); www.lomography.com; and
www.kodakalaris.com. For vinyl records, see DigitalMusicNews/2017/01/03/vinyl-record-
sales-1991 (accessed January 5, 2017).
58      See Klebnikov, P. (1991). “The powerhouse.” Forbes, September 2, pp. 46–52; and
Rosenbloom, R. S., and C. Christensen. (1990). “Continuous casting investments at USX
corporation.” Harvard Business School Case No. 9-391-121.
59      Finn, E. A. (1987). “General Eclectic.” Forbes, March 23, pp. 74–80.
60    See Smith, L. (1993). “Can defense pain be turned to gain?” Fortune, February 8, pp.
84–96; Perry, N. J. (1993). “What’s next for the defense industry?” Fortune, February 22,
pp. 94–100; and Dial, J., and K. J. Murphy. (1995). “Incentive, downsizing, and value
creation at General Dynamics.” Journal of Financial Economics, 37, pp. 261–314.
Chapter 3 Evaluating a Firm’s
Internal Capabilities
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to:


               3.1 Describe the resource-based view and how it
               differs from the S-C-P model.
               3.2 Describe the VRIO framework and how it
               relates to the resource-based view.
               3.3 Be able to apply the VRIO framework to
               identify the competitive implications of a firm’s
               resources and capabilities.
               3.4 Discuss important implications of the
               resource-based view, including:
                   a. How value chain analysis can be used to
                      identify a firm’s valuable resources and
                      capabilities.
                   b. The kinds of resources and capabilities that
                      are likely to be costly to imitate.
                   c. How a firm uses its structure, formal and
                      informal control processes, and compensation
                     policy to exploit its resources.
MyLab Management
  Improve Your Grade!


If your instructor is using MyLab Management, visit
www.pearson.com/mylab/management for
simulations, tutorials, and end-of-chapter problems.
When a Noun Becomes a
Verb
Google wasn’t the first Internet search engine. At least 19
search engines existed—including Lycos, Alta Vista, Excite,
Yahoo!, and Ask Jeeves—before Google was introduced in
1998. Nor is Google the only Internet search engine currently
operating. Currently, at least 32 Internet search engines exist,
including Ask.com, Bing, Baidu, and DuckDuckGo.

However, despite what appears to be an incredibly
competitive industry, Google reigns supreme, with a U.S. and
worldwide market share more than 60 percent of all Internet
searches.

Indeed, Google has been so successful that it has been
“verbicized.” Now, to “google” something means to look
something up on the Internet. This is the case even if you
don’t use Google to search the Web.

Many have wondered what has made Google so successful
and whether it will be able to maintain—and even extend—its
success. Three attributes of Google have been most widely
cited.

First, Google is technically very competent. In the mid-1990s,
all other search engines counted key words on Web pages
and then reported which Web sites had the most common key
words. Google conceptualized the search process differently
and used the relationship among pages as a way to guide
users to those Web sites that were most helpful to them. Most
people agree that Google’s approach to Internet search was
superior.




FocusDigital/Alamy Stock Photo




This technical competence has enabled Google to buy the
technologies of several firms—including Keyhole and Global
IP Solutions—and then to leverage those technologies into
successful Google products—including Google Earth and
Google Hangout.

Second, Google has been unusually successful in monetizing
its software—that is, finding ways to make the software it
gives to customers for free generate revenues for Google.
Perhaps the best example of this is Google’s AdWords
program—a system that uses demand for Google advertising
to precisely price the value of clicking onto a Web site. In
2016, Google AdWords generated $19 billion in revenue.

Finally, Google’s founders—Larry Page and Sergey Brin—are
convinced that Google’s unique organizational culture is
central to their success. Google has a playful yet demanding
culture. Developers are held to the highest standards of
performance but are also encouraged to spend at least 20
percent of their time working on their own personal projects—
many of which have turned into great products for Google.
When it issued some new shares in 2005, it sold 14,159,265
shares, exactly. Why? Because those are the first eight
numbers after the decimal point in pi (3.14159265). Google’s
unofficial slogan—a not-very-subtle dig on Microsoft—is
“Don’t Do Evil.” So, Google doesn’t develop proprietary
software that it then attempts to sell to users for high prices.
Instead, Google trusts its users, follows their lead in
developing new products, and adopts an open approach to
developing software.

Whether or not these three attributes of Google are sources of
sustained competitive advantage is still up for debate. On the
one hand, Google has used all three to develop an open
source smart phone operating system—Android—that
currently dominates the global smart phone market, with over
80% market share (compared to Apple’s 18%). Moreover,
Google seems to have figured out how to monetize the
success of one of its best-known acquisitions, YouTube. In
2016, YouTube generated $9 billion in revenue.
On the other hand, Google’s acquisition of Motorola Mobile for
$12.5 billion seemed questionable to many people, especially
when they sold the business to Lenovo in 2014 for $2.9
billion. But Google argued that, first, Motorola had $3 billion in
cash with no debt. This effectively reduced the acquisition
price to $9.5 billion. It then sold off Motorola’s cable box
business for $2.3 billion, and gained access to Motorola
patents it valued at $5.5 billion. So, what was left over was
worth $1.7 billion (12.5 − 3.0 − 2.3 − 5.5) —an asset they
sold for $2.9 billion to Lenovo. Also, while Google dominates
the general-purpose search market, specialty search engines
—for travel (e.g., Travelocity), for retail sales (e.g.,
Amazon.com), for genealogy (e.g., Ancestry.com), for event
tickets (e.g., StubHub), and so forth—are becoming
increasingly popular. Whether or not Google’s capabilities will
enable it to retain advantages over these specialty search
engines is still in question.

There are, of course, lots of different opinions about Google,
and it’s easy to find them—just “google” Google on the Web,
and in less than half a second, you will see more than 2 billion
Web sites that are related to Google.1
Google has been extremely successful, first in
the Internet search engine market and later in
related markets. What, if anything, about
Google’s resources and capabilities make it
likely that this firm will be able to continue its
success? The ideas presented in this chapter
help answer this question.
The Resource-Based View of the
Firm
Objective 3.1 Describe the resource-based view and how it differs
              from the S-C-P model.


In Chapter 2 , we saw that it was possible to take some theoretical
models developed in economics—specifically the structure-conduct-
performance (S-C-P) model—and apply them to develop tools for
analyzing a firm’s external threats and opportunities. The same is
true for analyzing a firm’s internal strengths and
weaknesses. However, whereas the tools described in Chapter 2
were based on the S-C-P model, the tools described in this chapter
are based on the resource-based view (RBV) of the firm. The RBV is
a model of firm performance that focuses on the resources and
capabilities controlled by a firm as sources of competitive
advantage.2
What Are Resources and
Capabilities?
Resources      in the RBV are defined as the tangible and intangible
assets that a firm controls that it can use to conceive and implement
its strategies. Examples of resources include a firm’s factories (a
tangible asset), its products (a tangible asset), its reputation among
customers (an intangible asset), and teamwork among its managers
(an intangible asset). Google’s tangible assets include its Web site
and associated software. Its intangible assets include its brand name
and reputation in the search engine business.


Capabilities are a subset of a firm’s resources and are defined as
the tangible and intangible assets that enable a firm to take full
advantage of the other resources it controls. That is, capabilities
alone do not enable a firm to conceive and implement its strategies,
but they enable a firm to use other resources to conceive and
implement such strategies. Examples of capabilities might include a
firm’s marketing skills and teamwork and cooperation among its
managers. At Google, the cooperation among software developers
and marketing people that made it possible for Google to dominate
the search engine business is an example of a capability.


A firm’s resources and capabilities can be classified into four broad
categories: financial resources, physical resources, individual
resources, and organizational resources. Financial resources
include all the money, from whatever source, that firms use to
conceive and implement strategies. These financial resources
include cash from entrepreneurs, equity holders, bondholders, and
banks. Retained earnings , or the profit that a firm made earlier in
its history and invests in itself, are also an important type of financial
resource.


Physical resources include all the physical technology used in a
firm. This includes a firm’s plant and equipment, its geographic
location, and its access to raw materials. Specific examples of plant
and equipment that are part of a firm’s physical resources are a
firm’s computer hardware and software technology, robots used in
manufacturing, and automated warehouses. Geographic location, as
a type of physical resource, is important for firms as diverse as Wal-
Mart (with its operations in rural markets generating, on average,
higher returns than its operations in more competitive urban
markets) and L. L. Bean (a catalogue retail firm that believes that its
rural Maine location helps its employees identify with the outdoor
lifestyle of many of its customers).3


Human resources         include the training, experience, judgment,
intelligence, relationships, and insight of individual managers and
workers in a firm.4 The importance of the human resources of well-
known entrepreneurs such as Bill Gates (Microsoft) and Steve Jobs
(formerly at Apple) is broadly understood. However, valuable human
resources are not limited to just entrepreneurs or senior managers.
Each employee at a firm like Southwest Airlines is essential for the
overall success of the firm. Whether it is the willingness of the gate
agent to joke with the harried traveler, or a baggage handler hustling
to get a passenger’s bag into a plane, or even a pilot’s decision to fly
in a way that saves fuel—all of these human resources are part of
the resource base that has enabled Southwest to gain advantages in
the very competitive U.S. airline industry.5


Whereas human resources are an attribute of single individuals,
organizational resources       are an attribute of groups of
individuals. Organizational resources include a firm’s formal
reporting structure; its formal and informal planning, controlling, and
coordinating systems; its culture and reputation; and informal
relations among groups within a firm and between a firm and those
in its environment. At Southwest Airlines, relationships among
individual resources are an important organizational resource. For
example, it is not unusual to see the pilots at Southwest helping to
load the bags on an airplane to ensure that the plane leaves on time.
This kind of cooperation and dedication shows up in an intense
loyalty between Southwest employees and the firm—a loyalty that
manifests itself in low employee turnover and high employee
productivity, even though more than 80 percent of Southwest’s
workforce is unionized.
Critical Assumptions of the
Resource-Based View
The RBV rests on two fundamental assumptions about the resources
and capabilities that firms may control. First, different firms may
possess different bundles of resources and capabilities, even if they
are competing in the same industry. This is the assumption of firm
resource heterogeneity      . Resource heterogeneity implies that for
a given business activity, some firms may be more skilled in
accomplishing this activity than other firms. In manufacturing, for
example, Toyota continues to be more skilled than, say, Fiat
Chrysler. In product design, Apple continues to be more skilled than,
say, IBM. In motorcycles, Harley Davidson’s reputation for big, bad,
and loud rides separates it from its competitors.

Second, some of these resource and capability differences among
firms may be long lasting because it may be very costly for firms
without certain resources and capabilities to develop or acquire
them. This is the assumption of resource immobility . For
example, Toyota has had its advantage in manufacturing over Fiat
and Chrysler, as separate, and now merged, firms for at least 30
years. Apple has had product design advantages over IBM since
Apple was founded in the 1980s. And Harley’s product reputation
has remained distinctive for several decades. It is not that Toyota’s,
Apple’s, and Harley Davidson’s competitors are unaware of their
disadvantages. Indeed, some of these firms—notably IBM and many
Japanese motorcycle firms—have made progress in addressing their
disadvantages. However, despite these efforts, Toyota, Apple, and
Harley Davidson continue to enjoy advantages over their
competition.

Taken together, these two assumptions make it possible to explain
why some firms outperform other firms, even if these firms are all
competing in the same industry. If a firm possesses valuable
resources and capabilities that few other firms possess and if these
other firms find it too costly to imitate these resources and
capabilities, the firm that possesses these tangible and intangible
assets can gain a sustained competitive advantage. The economic
logic that underlies the RBV is described in more detail in the
Strategy in Depth     feature.
S T R AT E G Y I N D E P T H




Ricardian Economics and the Resource-Based View

The theoretical roots of the resource-based view can be
traced to research done by David Ricardo in 1817.
Interestingly, Ricardo was not even studying the profitability of
firms; he was interested in the economic consequences of
owning more or less fertile farm land.
Unlike many other inputs into the production process, the total
supply of land is relatively fixed and cannot be significantly
increased in response to higher demand and prices. Such
inputs are said to be inelastic in supply        because their
quantity of supply is fixed and does not respond to price
increases. In these settings, it is possible for those who own
higher-quality inputs to gain competitive advantages.

Ricardo’s argument concerning land as a productive input is
summarized in Figure 3.1        . Imagine that there are many
parcels of land suitable for growing wheat. Also, suppose that
the fertility of these different parcels varies from high-fertility
(low costs of production) to low-fertility (high costs of
production). It seems obvious that when the market price for
wheat is low, it will only pay farmers with the most fertile land
to grow wheat. Only these farmers will have costs low enough
to make money when the market price for wheat is low. As
the market price for wheat increases, then farmers with
progressively less fertile land will be able to use it to grow
wheat. These observations lead to the market supply curve in
panel A of Figure 3.1 : As prices (P) go up, supply (S) also
goes up. At some point on this supply curve, supply will equal
demand (D). This point determines the market price for
wheat, given supply and demand. This price is called P* in
the figure.
F IG U R E

3.1 The Economics of Land with Different Levels of
Fertility


Now consider the situation facing two different kinds of
farmers. Ricardo assumed that both these farmers follow
traditional economic logic by producing a quantity (q) such
that their marginal cost (MC) equals their marginal revenue
(MR); that is, they produce enough wheat so that the cost of
producing the last bushel of wheat equals the revenue they
will get from selling that last bushel. However, this decision for
the farm with less fertile land (in panel B of the figure)
generates revenues that exactly equal the average total cost
(ATC) of the only capital this farmer is assumed to employ,
the cost of his land. In contrast, the farmer with more fertile
land (in panel C of the figure) has an average total cost (ATC)
less than the market-determined price and thus can earn an
above-normal economic profit. This is because at the market-
determined price, P*, MC equals ATC for the farmer with less
fertile land, whereas MC is greater than ATC for the farmer
with more fertile land.

In traditional economic analysis, the profit earned by the
farmer with more fertile land should lead other farmers to
enter this market, that is, to obtain some land and produce
wheat. However, all the land that can be used to produce
wheat in a way that generates at least a normal return given
the market price P* is already in production. In particular, no
more very fertile land is available, and fertile land (by
assumption) cannot be created. This is what is meant by land
being inelastic in supply. Thus, the farmer with more fertile
land and lower production costs has a sustained competitive
advantage over those farmers with less fertile land and higher
production costs. Therefore, the farmer with the more fertile
land can earn an above-normal economic profit.

Of course, at least two events can threaten this sustained
competitive advantage. First, market demand may shift down
and to the left. This would force farmers with less fertile land
to cease production and would also reduce the profit of those
with more fertile land. If demand shifted far enough, this profit
might disappear altogether.

Second, farmers with less fertile land may discover low-cost
ways of increasing their land’s fertility, thereby reducing the
competitive advantage of farmers with more fertile land. For
example, farmers with less fertile land may be able to use
inexpensive fertilizers to increase their land’s fertility. The
existence of such low-cost fertilizers suggests that, although
land may be in fixed supply, fertility may not be. If enough
farmers can increase the fertility of their land, then the profits
originally earned by the farmers with the more fertile land will
disappear.

Of course, what the RBV does is recognize that land is not
the only productive input that is inelastic in supply and that
farmers are not the only firms that benefit from having such
resources at their disposal.6
The VRIO Framework
Objective 3.2 Describe the VRIO framework and how it relates to
                 the resource-based view.

Armed with the RBV, it is possible to develop a set of tools for
analyzing all the different resources and capabilities a firm might
possess and the potential of each of these to generate competitive
advantages. In this way, it will be possible to identify a firm’s internal
strengths and its internal weaknesses. The primary tool for
accomplishing this internal analysis is called the VRIO framework.7
The acronym, VRIO, in VRIO framework stands for four
questions one must ask about a resource or capability to determine
its competitive potential: the question of Value, the question of
Rarity, the question of Imitability, and the question of Organization.
These four questions are summarized in Table 3.1 .


Table 3.1 Questions Needed to Conduct a Resource-Based
Analysis of a Firm’s Internal Strengths and Weaknesses
The Question of Value
The question of value is: “Do resources and capabilities enable a
firm to exploit an external opportunity or neutralize an external
threat?” If a firm answers this question with a “yes,” then its
resources and capabilities are valuable and can be considered
strengths. If a firm answers this question with a “no,” its resources
and capabilities are weaknesses. There is nothing inherently
valuable about a firm’s resources and capabilities. Rather, they are
only valuable to the extent that they enable a firm to enhance its
competitive position. Sometimes, the same resources and
capabilities can be strengths in one market and weaknesses in
another.
Valuable Resources and Firm
Performance
Sometimes it is difficult to know for sure whether a firm’s resources
and capabilities really enable it to exploit its external opportunities or
neutralize its external threats. Sometimes, this requires detailed
operational information that may not be readily available. Other
times, the full impact of a firm’s resources and capabilities on its
external opportunities and threats may not be known for some time.


One way to track the impact of a firm’s resources and capabilities on
its opportunities and threats is to examine the impact of using these
resources and capabilities on a firm’s revenues and costs. In
general, firms that use their resources and capabilities to exploit
opportunities or neutralize threats will see an increase in their net
revenues, or a decrease in their net costs, or both, compared to the
situation in which they were not using these resources and
capabilities to exploit opportunities or neutralize threats. That is, the
value of these resources and capabilities will generally manifest itself
in either higher revenues or lower costs or both, once a firm starts
using them to exploit opportunities or neutralize threats.
Applying the Question of Value
For many firms, the answer to the question of value has been “yes.”
That is, many firms have resources and capabilities that are used to
exploit opportunities and neutralize threats, and the use of these
resources and capabilities enables these firms to increase their net
revenues or decrease their net costs. For example, historically, Sony
had a great deal of experience in designing, manufacturing, and
selling miniaturized electronic technology. Sony used these
resources and capabilities to exploit opportunities, including video
games, digital cameras, computers and peripherals, handheld
computers, home video and audio, portable audio, and car audio. 3M
has used its resources and capabilities in substrates, coatings, and
adhesives, along with an organizational culture that rewards risk-
taking and creativity, to exploit opportunities in office products,
including invisible tape and Post-It notes. Sony’s and 3M’s resources
and capabilities—including their specific technological skills and their
creative organizational cultures—have made it possible for these
firms to respond to, and even create, new opportunities.8


Unfortunately, for other firms the answer to the question of value
appears to be “no.” For example, in 2008 Arby’s bought Wendy’s for
$2.34 billion. Efforts to improve each other’s fast food operations
failed, and Wendy’s sold Arby’s in 2011. Also, in 2008, Bank of
America purchased Countrywide—a mortgage company—for $2.5
billion. Caught up in the financial collapse of 2008, Countrywide
ultimately cost Bank of America $40 billion. In 2005, eBay purchased
Skype for $2.6 billion; in 2009, eBay sold Skype for $1.9 billion—an
impressive destruction of $700 million in value in four years. And in
2000, AOL bought Time Warner for $160 billion—an effort to create a
new kind of media company. Time Warner wrote off $90 billion of the
AOL acquisition in 2002 and completely separated itself from AOL in
2009. In all these cases, firms looking to enhance and exploit the
value of their resources and capabilities apparently failed.9
Using Value Chain Analysis to Identify
Potentially Valuable Resources
and Capabilities
One way to identify potentially valuable resources and capabilities
controlled by a firm is to study that firm’s value chain. A firm’s value
chain is the set of business activities in which it engages to
develop, produce, and market its products or services. Each step in
a firm’s value chain requires the application and integration of
different resources and capabilities. Because different firms may
make different choices about which value chain activities they will
engage in, they can end up developing different sets of resources
and capabilities. This can be the case even if these firms are all
operating in the same industry. These choices can have implications
for a firm’s strategies, and, as described in the Ethics and
Strategy     feature, they can also have implications for society more
generally.
E T H I C S A N D S T R AT E G Y
Externalities and the Broader Consequences of Profit
Maximization


Strategic management adopts the perspective of a firm’s
owners in discussing how to gain and sustain competitive
advantages. Even when adopting a stakeholder
perspective (see the Ethics and Strategy feature in Chapter
1 ), how a firm can improve its performance and increase
the wealth of its owners still takes center stage.

However, an exclusive focus on the performance of a firm and
the wealth of its owners can sometimes have broader effects
—on society and on the environment—that are not fully
recognized. Economists call these broader effects
“externalities” because they are external to the core issue in
economics and strategic management of how firms can
maximize their performance. They are external to this issue
because firms generally do not bear the full costs of the
externalities their profit-maximizing behavior creates.

Externalities can take many forms. The most obvious of these
has to do with pollution and the environment. If, for example,
in the process of maximizing its performance a firm engages
in activities that pollute the environment, the impact of that
pollution is an externality. Such pollution reduces our quality
of life and hurts the environment, but the firm creating this
pollution often does not bear the full costs of doing so.
   Other externalities have to do with a firm’s impact on the
   public’s health. For example, when tobacco companies
   maximize their profits by selling tobacco to children, they are
   also creating a public health externality. Getting children
   hooked on tobacco early on might be good for the bottom line
   of a tobacco company, but it increases the chances of these
   children developing lung cancer, emphysema, heart disease,
   and the other ailments associated with tobacco. Obviously,
   these individuals absorb most of the adverse consequences
   of these diseases, but society suffers as well from the high
   health care costs that are engendered.

   Put differently, while adopting a simple profit-maximizing
   perspective in choosing and implementing strategies can
   have positive impacts for a firm, its owners, and its
   stakeholders, it can also have negative consequences for
   society as a whole. Two broad solutions to this problem of
   externalities have been proposed. First, governments can
   take on the responsibility of directly monitoring and regulating
   the behavior of firms in areas where these kinds of
   externalities are likely to develop. Second, governments can
   use lawsuits and regulations to ensure that firms directly bear
   more of the costs of any externalities their behavior might
   generate. Once these externalities are “internalized,” it is then
   a matter of self-interest for firms not to engage in activities
   that generate negative externalities.


Consider, for example, the oil industry. Figure 3.2     provides a
simplified list of all the business activities that must be completed if
crude oil is to be turned into consumer products, such as gasoline.
These activities include exploring for crude oil, drilling for crude oil,
pumping crude oil, shipping crude oil, buying crude oil, refining crude
oil, selling refined products to distributors, shipping refined products,
and selling refined products to final customers.




Figure 3.2 A Simplified Value Chain of Activities of Oil-Based
Refined Products such as Gasoline and Motor Oil

Different firms may make different choices about which of these
stages in the oil industry they want to operate. Thus, the firms in the
oil industry may have very different resources and capabilities. For
example, exploring for crude oil is very expensive and requires
substantial financial resources. It also requires access to land (a
physical resource), the application of substantial scientific and
technical knowledge (individual resources), and an organizational
commitment to risk-taking and exploration (organizational
resources). Firms that operate in this stage of the oil business are
likely to have very different resources and capabilities than those
that, for example, sell refined oil products to final customers. To be
successful in the retail stage of this industry, a firm needs retail
outlets (such as stores and gas stations), which are costly to build
and require both financial and physical resources. These outlets, in
turn, need to be staffed by salespeople—individual resources—and
marketing these products to customers through advertisements and
other means can require a commitment to creativity—an
organizational resource.


However, even firms that operate in the same set of value chain
activities in an industry may approach these activities very differently
and therefore may develop very different resources and capabilities
associated with these activities. For example, two firms may sell
refined oil products to final customers. However, one of these firms
may sell only through retail outlets it owns, whereas the second may
sell only through retail outlets it does not own. The first firm’s
financial and physical resources are likely to be very different from
the second firm’s, although these two firms may have similar
individual and organizational resources.
Consumers can sometimes also help internalize the externalities
generated by a firm’s behavior by adjusting their consumption
patterns to buy products or services only from companies that do not
generate negative externalities. Consumers can even be more
proactive and let firms know which of their strategies are particularly
troubling. For example, many consumers united to boycott firms with
operations in South Africa when South Africa was still implementing
a policy of apartheid. Ultimately, this pressure not only changed the
strategies of many firms; it also helped change South Africa’s
domestic policies. More recently, consumer pressures on
pharmaceutical companies forced these firms to make their AIDS
drugs more accessible in less developed countries in Africa; similar
pressures forced Nike to adjust the wages and working conditions of
the individuals who manufacture Nike’s shoes. To the extent that
sufficient demand for “socially responsible firms” exists in the
marketplace, it may make profit-maximizing sense for a firm to
engage in socially responsible behavior by reducing the extent to
which its actions generate negative externalities.10


Studying a firm’s value chain forces us to think about firm resources
and capabilities in a disaggregated way. Although it is possible to
characterize a firm’s resources and capabilities more broadly, it is
usually more helpful to think about how each of the activities a firm
engages in affects its financial, physical, individual, and
organizational resources. With this understanding, it is possible to
begin to recognize potential sources of competitive advantage for a
firm in a much more detailed way.
Because this type of analysis can be so helpful in identifying the
financial, physical, individual, and organizational resources and
capabilities controlled by a firm, several generic value chains for
identifying them have been developed. One of these, proposed by
the management-consulting firm McKinsey and Company, is
presented in Figure 3.3    .11 This relatively simple model suggests
that the creation of value almost always involves six distinct
activities: technology development, product design, manufacturing,
marketing, distribution, and service. Firms can develop distinctive
capabilities in any one or any combination of these activities.




Figure 3.3 The Generic Value Chain Developed by McKinsey
and Company
The Question of Rarity
Understanding the value of a firm’s resources and capabilities is an
important first consideration in understanding a firm’s internal
strengths and weaknesses. However, if a particular resource or
capability is controlled by numerous competing firms, then that
resource is unlikely to be a source of competitive advantage for any
one of them. Instead, valuable but common (i.e., not rare) resources
and capabilities are sources of competitive parity. Only when a
resource is not controlled by numerous other firms is it likely to be a
source of competitive advantage. These observations lead to the
question of rarity    : “How many competing firms already possess
particular valuable resources and capabilities?”


Consider, for example, competition among television sports
channels. All the major networks and many local channels broadcast
sports, but these sports programs are generally part of a diversified
program offering that includes game shows, day time dramas, news
programs, situation comedies, police and medical dramas, and so
forth. Until 1998, there were no all-sports channels on broadcast
television or on cable. Enter ESPN—the entertainment and sports
network. First conceived of as a channel for broadcasting sports
events originating from Connecticut, ESPN grew to cover a broad
range of sports and to include some of the most important sporting
events in the world—including NFL and college football playoff
games. From 1998 to the late 2000s, ESPN (and all its affiliated
channels) was the only television outlet committed completely to
sports. This unique commitment led ESPN to develop a very strong
brand name and to become a very valuable television property.
Ultimately, it was purchased by Disney (who also owned ABC).
During this period, ESPN’s brand and unique commitment to
televised sports was valuable and rare, and thus a source of at least
a temporary competitive advantage.12


However, things have begun to change. First, several sports
specialty channels—channels that show one sport only—have begun
to arrive on cable and satellite. These include MLB Network (for
professional baseball), the NFL Network (for professional football),
the Golf Channel, and the Tennis Chanel. Even more importantly,
other broadcasters—including NBC, CBS, and Fox—have begun
their own 24 hour sports channels—complete with their own nightly
review of sports news that directly compete with ESPN’s venerable
SportsCenter. While ESPN still has the best-known brand in
televised sport—a brand leveraged by ABC in its sports broadcasts
with the tag line “ESPN on ABC,”—and most of the premiere events,
some observers are beginning to wonder how rare ESPN’s
commitment to sports still is.13


Of course, not all of a firm’s resources and capabilities have to be
valuable and rare. Indeed, most firms have a resource base that is
composed primarily of valuable but common resources and
capabilities. These resources cannot be sources of even temporary
competitive advantage, but are essential if a firm is to gain
competitive parity. Under conditions of competitive parity, although
no one firm gains a competitive advantage, firms do increase their
probability of survival.


Consider, for example, a telephone system as a resource or
capability. Because telephone systems are widely available and
because virtually all organizations have access to telephone
systems, these systems are not rare and thus are not a source of
competitive advantage. However, firms that do not possess a
telephone system are likely to give their competitors an important
advantage and place themselves at a competitive disadvantage.


How rare a valuable resource or capability must be to have the
potential for generating a competitive advantage varies from
situation to situation. It is not difficult to see that, if a firm’s valuable
resources and capabilities are absolutely unique among a set of
current and potential competitors, they can generate a competitive
advantage. However, it may be possible for a small number of firms
in an industry to possess a particular valuable resource or capability
and still obtain a competitive advantage. In general, as long as the
number of firms that possess a particular valuable resource or
capability is less than the number of firms needed to generate
perfect competition dynamics in an industry, that resource or
capability can be considered rare and a potential source of
competitive advantage.
The Question of Imitability
Firms with valuable and rare resources are often strategic innovators
because they can conceive and engage in strategies that other firms
cannot because they lack the relevant resources and
capabilities. These firms may gain the first-mover advantages
discussed in Chapter 2     .

Valuable and rare organizational resources, however, can be
sources of sustained competitive advantage only if firms that do not
possess them face a cost disadvantage in obtaining or developing
them, compared to firms that already possess them. These kinds of
resources are imperfectly imitable      .14 These observations lead to
the question of imitability    : “Do firms without a resource or
capability face a cost disadvantage in obtaining or developing it
compared to firms that already possess it?”


Imagine an industry with five essentially identical firms. Each of
these firms manufactures the same products, uses the same raw
materials, and sells the products to the same customers through the
same distribution channels. It is not hard to see that firms in this kind
of industry will have normal economic performance. Now, suppose
that one of these firms, for whatever reason, discovers or develops a
heretofore unrecognized valuable resource and uses that resource
either to exploit an external opportunity or to neutralize an external
threat. Obviously, this firm will gain a competitive advantage over the
others.
This firm’s competitors can respond to this competitive advantage in
at least two ways. First, they can ignore the success of this one firm
and continue as before. This action, of course, will put them at a
competitive disadvantage. Second, these firms can attempt to
understand why this one firm can be successful and then duplicate
its resources to implement a similar strategy. If competitors have no
cost disadvantages in acquiring or developing the needed resources,
then this imitative approach will generate competitive parity in the
industry.


Sometimes, however, for reasons that will be discussed later,
competing firms may face an important cost disadvantage in
duplicating a successful firm’s valuable resources. If this is the case,
this one innovative firm may gain a sustained competitive advantage
—an advantage that is not competed away through strategic
imitation. Firms that possess and exploit costly-to-imitate, rare, and
valuable resources in choosing and implementing their strategies
may enjoy a period of sustained competitive advantage.15


For example, as noted earlier, other sports networks have observed
the success of ESPN and are beginning to develop their own sports
networks. Many of the resources and capabilities that have made
ESPN successful are imitable—including its access to satellites for
broadcasting—and thus are not a source of sustained competitive
advantage. ESPN’s brand, on the other hand, may be costlier for
these firms to imitate, and thus may be a source of sustained
competitive advantage.
Forms of Imitation: Direct Duplication
and Substitution
In general, imitation occurs in one of two ways: direct duplication
or substitution     . Imitating firms can attempt to directly duplicate
the resources possessed by the firm with a competitive advantage.
Thus, NBC creating its own 24-hour sports channel can be thought
of as an effort to directly duplicate ESPN’s resources and
capabilities. If the cost of this direct duplication is too high, then a
firm with these resources and capabilities may obtain a sustained
competitive advantage. If this cost is not too high, then any
competitive advantages in this setting will be temporary.


Imitating firms can also attempt to substitute other resources for a
costly-to-imitate resource possessed by a firm with a competitive
advantage. Specialty sports channels—the MLB Network, the NFL
Network, the Golf Channel, and the Tennis Channel—are potential
substitutes for ESPN diversified sports offering. In this sense, these
specialty channel’s commitment to deep coverage of a single sport is
a potential substitute for ESPN’s broad commitment to many
different sports. If substitute resources exist and if imitating firms do
not face a cost disadvantage in obtaining them, then the competitive
advantage of other firms will be temporary. However, if these
resources have no substitutes or if the cost of acquiring these
substitutes is greater than the cost of obtaining the original
resources, then competitive advantages can be sustained.
Why Might It Be Costly to Imitate Another
Firm’s Resources or Capabilities?
A number of authors have studied why it might be costly for one firm
to imitate the resources and capabilities of another. Four sources of
costly imitation have been noted.16 They are summarized in Table
3.2   and discussed in the following text.


Table 3.2 Sources of Costly Imitation
Unique Historical Conditions
It may be the case that a firm could acquire or develop its resources
and capabilities in a low-cost manner because of its unique historical
conditions. The ability of firms to acquire, develop, and use
resources often depends on their place in time and space. Once time
and history pass, firms that do not have space-and-time-dependent
resources face a significant cost disadvantage in obtaining and
developing them because doing so would require them to re-create
history.17


ESPN’s early commitment to 24-hour sports programing is an
example of these unique historical conditions. Before ESPN, no one
thought that there would be demand for 24-hour sports. For many
years, ESPN was alone in this market. This enabled ESPN to
develop the capabilities and routines needed to present 24-hour
sports in a way that was appealing to consumers. This, in turn,
helped ESPN create a brand that others may find costly to imitate.


Unique historical circumstances can give a firm a sustained
competitive advantage in at least two ways. First, it may be that a
particular firm was the first in an industry to recognize and exploit an
opportunity, and being first gave the firm one or more of the first-
mover advantages discussed in Chapter 2         . Thus, although in
principle other firms in an industry could have exploited an
opportunity, that only one firm did so makes it costlier for other firms
to imitate the original firm.
A second way that history can have an impact on a firm builds on the
concept of path dependence         .18 A process is said to be path
dependent when events early in the evolution of a process have
significant effects on subsequent events. In the evolution of
competitive advantage, path dependence suggests that a firm may
gain a competitive advantage in the current period based on the
acquisition and development of resources in earlier periods. In these
earlier periods, it is often not clear what the full future value of
particular resources will be. Because of this uncertainty, firms can
acquire or develop these resources for less than what will turn out to
be their full value. However, once the full value of these resources is
revealed, other firms seeking to acquire or develop these resources
will need to pay their full known value, which (in general) will be
greater than the costs incurred by the firm that acquired or
developed these resources in some earlier period. The cost of
acquiring both duplicate and substitute resources would rise once
their full value became known.

Consider, for example, a firm that purchased land for ranching some
time ago and discovered a rich supply of oil on this land in the
current period. The difference between the value of this land as a
supplier of oil (high) and the value of this land for ranching (low) is a
source of competitive advantage for this firm. Moreover, other firms
attempting to acquire this or adjacent land will now have to pay for
the full value of the land in its use as a supply of oil (high) and thus
will be at a cost disadvantage compared to the firm that acquired it
some time ago for ranching.
Causal Ambiguity
A second reason why a firm’s resources and capabilities may be
costly to imitate is that imitating firms may not understand the
relationship between the resources and capabilities controlled by a
firm and that firm’s competitive advantage. In other words, the
relationship between firm resources and capabilities and competitive
advantage may be causally ambiguous          .


At first, it seems unlikely that causal ambiguity about the sources of
competitive advantage for a firm would ever exist. Managers in a firm
seem likely to understand the sources of their own competitive
advantage. If managers in one firm understand the relationship
between resources and competitive advantage, then it seems likely
that managers in other firms would also be able to discover these
relationships and thus would have a clear understanding of which
resources and capabilities they should duplicate or seek substitutes
for. If there are no other sources of cost disadvantage for imitating
firms, imitation should lead to competitive parity and normal
economic performance.19


However, it is not always the case that managers in a particular firm
will fully understand the relationship between the resources and
capabilities they control and competitive advantage. This lack of
understanding could occur for at least three reasons. First, it may be
that the resources and capabilities that generate
competitive advantage are so taken for granted, so much a part of
the day-to-day experience of managers in a firm, that these
managers are unaware of them.20 Organizational resources and
capabilities such as teamwork among top managers, organizational
culture, relationships among other employees, and relationships with
customers and suppliers may be almost “invisible” to managers in a
firm.21 If managers in firms that have such capabilities do not
understand their relationship to competitive advantage, managers in
other firms face significant challenges in understanding which
resources they should imitate.


Second, managers may have multiple hypotheses about which
resources and capabilities enable their firm to gain a competitive
advantage, but they may be unable to evaluate which of these
resources and capabilities, alone or in combination, actually create
the competitive advantage. For example, if one asks successful
entrepreneurs what enabled them to be successful, they are likely to
reply with several hypotheses, such as, “hard work, willingness to
take risks, and a high-quality top management team.” However, if
one asks what happened to unsuccessful entrepreneurs, they, too,
are likely to suggest that their firms were characterized by, “hard
work, willingness to take risks, and a high-quality top management
team.” It may be the case that, “hard work, willingness to take risks,
and a high-quality top management team” are important resources
and capabilities for entrepreneurial firm success, but other factors
may also play a role. Without rigorous experiments, it is difficult to
establish which of these resources have a causal relationship with
competitive advantage and which do not.
Finally, it may be that not just a few resources and capabilities
enable a firm to gain a competitive advantage, but that literally
thousands of these organizational attributes, bundled together,
generate these advantages. When the resources and capabilities
that generate competitive advantage are complex networks of
relationships between individuals, groups, and technology, imitation
can be costly.


Whenever the sources of competitive advantage are widely diffused
across people, locations, and processes in a firm, those sources will
be costly to imitate. Perhaps the best example of such a resource is
knowledge itself. To the extent that valuable knowledge about a
firm’s products, processes, customers, and so on is widely diffused
throughout an organization, competitors will have difficulty imitating
that knowledge, and it can be a source of sustained competitive
advantage.22
Social Complexity
A third reason that a firm’s resources and capabilities may be costly
to imitate is that they may be socially complex phenomena, beyond
the ability of firms to systematically manage and influence. When
competitive advantages are based on such complex social
phenomena, the ability of other firms to imitate these resources and
capabilities, either through direct duplication or substitution, is
significantly constrained. Efforts to influence these kinds of
phenomena are likely to be much more costly than they would be if
these phenomena developed in a natural way over time in a firm.23


A wide variety of firm resources and capabilities may be socially
complex . Examples include the interpersonal relations among
managers in a firm, a firm’s culture, and a firm’s reputation among
suppliers and customers.24 Notice that in most of these cases it is
possible to specify how these socially complex resources add value
to a firm. Thus, there is little or no causal ambiguity surrounding the
link between these firm resources and capabilities and competitive
advantage. However, understanding that an organizational culture
with certain attributes or quality relations among managers can
improve a firm’s efficiency and effectiveness does not necessarily
imply that firms lacking these attributes can engage in systematic
efforts to create them or that low-cost substitutes for them exist. For
the time being, such social engineering may be beyond the abilities
of most firms. At the very least, such social engineering is likely to be
much more costly than it would be if socially complex resources
evolved naturally within a firm.25
It is interesting to note that firms seeking to imitate complex physical
technology often do not face the cost disadvantages of imitating
complex social phenomena. A great deal of physical technology
(machine tools, robots, and so forth) can be purchased in supply
markets. Even when a firm develops its own unique physical
technology, reverse engineering tends to diffuse this technology
among competing firms in a low-cost manner. Indeed, the costs of
imitating a successful physical technology are often lower than the
costs of developing a new technology.26


Although physical technology is usually not costly to imitate, the
application of this technology in a firm is likely to call for a wide
variety of socially complex organizational resources and capabilities.
These organizational resources may be costly to imitate, and if they
are valuable and rare, the combination of physical and socially
complex resources may be a source of sustained competitive
advantage. The importance of socially complex resources and
capabilities for firm performance has been studied in detail in the
field of strategic human resource management, as described in the
Research Made Relevant          feature.
Patents
At first glance, it might appear that a firm’s patents would make it
very costly for competitors to imitate its products.27 Patents do have
this effect in some industries. For example, patents in the
pharmaceutical and specialty chemical industry effectively foreclose
other firms from marketing the same products until a firm’s patents
expire. As suggested in Chapter 2       , patents can raise the cost of
imitation in a variety of other industries as well.


However, from another point of view a firm’s patents may decrease,
rather than increase, the costs of imitation. When a firm files for
patent protection, it is forced to reveal a significant amount of
information about its product. Governments require this information
to ensure that the technology in question is patentable. By obtaining
a patent, a firm may provide important information to competitors
about how to imitate its technology.

Moreover, most technological developments in an industry are
diffused throughout firms in that industry in a relatively brief period,
even if the technology in question is patented, because patented
technology is not immune from low-cost imitation. Patents may
restrict direct duplication for a time, but they may actually increase
the chances of substitution by functionally equivalent technologies.28
The Question of Organization
A firm’s potential for competitive advantage depends on the value,
rarity, and imitability of its resources and capabilities. However, to
fully realize this potential, a firm must be organized to exploit its
resources and capabilities. These observations lead to the question
of organization : “Is a firm organized to exploit the full competitive
potential of its resources and capabilities?”


Numerous components of a firm’s organization are relevant to the
question of organization, including its formal reporting structure, its
formal and informal management control systems, and its
compensation policies. A firm’s formal reporting structure           is a
description of whom in the organization reports to whom; it is often
embodied in a firm’s organizational chart       . Management control
systems      include a range of formal and informal mechanisms to
ensure that managers are behaving in ways consistent with a firm’s
strategies. Formal management controls            include a firm’s
budgeting and reporting activities that keep people higher up in a
firm’s organizational chart informed about the actions taken by
people lower down in a firm’s organizational chart. Informal
management controls          might include a firm’s culture and the
willingness of employees to monitor each other’s behavior.
Compensation policies         are the ways that firms pay employees.
Such policies create incentives for employees to behave in certain
ways.
R E S E A R C H M A D E R E L E VA N T
Strategic Human Resource Management Research


Most empirical tests of the RBV have focused on the extent to
which history, causal ambiguity, and social complexity have
an impact on the ability of firms to gain and sustain
competitive advantages. Among the most important of these
tests has been research that examines the extent to which
human resource practices that are likely to generate socially
complex resources and capabilities are related to firm
performance. This area of research is known as strategic
human resources management.

The first of these tests was conducted as part of a larger
study of efficient low-cost manufacturing in the worldwide
automobile industry. A group of researchers from
Massachusetts Institute of Technology developed rigorous
measures of the cost and quality of more than 70
manufacturing plants that assembled mid-size sedans around
the world. They discovered that at the time of their study only
six of these plants had simultaneous low costs and high-
quality manufacturing—a position that obviously would give
these plants a competitive advantage in the marketplace.

In trying to understand what distinguished these six plants
from the others in the sample, the researchers found that, not
surprisingly, these six plants had the most modern and up-to-
date manufacturing technology. However, so did many of the
less effective plants. What distinguished these effective plants
was not their manufacturing technology, per se, but their
   human resource (HR) practices. These six plants all
   implemented a bundle of such practices that included
   participative decision making, quality circles, and an
   emphasis on team production. One of the results of these
   efforts—and another distinguishing feature of these six plants
   —was a high level of employee loyalty and commitment to a
   plant, as well as the belief that plant managers would treat
   employees fairly. These socially complex resources and
   capabilities are the types of resources that the RBV suggests
   should be sources of sustained competitive advantage.

   Later work has followed up on this approach and has
   examined the impact of HR practices on firm performance
   outside the manufacturing arena. Using a variety of measures
   of firm performance and several different measures of HR
   practices, the results of this research continue to be very
   consistent with RBV logic. That is, firms that can use HR
   practices to develop socially complex human and
   organizational resources are able to gain competitive
   advantages over firms that do not engage in such practices.29


These components of a firm’s organization are often called
complementary resources and capabilities             because they have
limited ability to generate competitive advantage in isolation.
However, in combination with other resources and capabilities they
can enable a firm to realize its full potential for competitive
advantage.30
For example, it has already been suggested that ESPN may have
enjoyed a competitive advantage in sports programming for many
years. However, if ESPN’s management had not taken advantage of
these opportunities by expanding its sports coverage, ensuring that
the best sporting events are on ESPN, and adding new and exciting
competitions (e.g., the ESPN X-Games that broadcast “extreme
sports”), then its potential for competitive advantage would not have
been fully realized. Of course, the reason that ESPN has done all
these things is because it has an appropriate organizational
structure, management controls, and employee compensation
policies. By themselves, these attributes of ESPN’s organization
could not be a source of competitive advantage; however, they were
essential for ESPN to realize its full competitive advantage potential.


Having an appropriate organization in place has enabled ESPN to
realize the full competitive advantage potential of its other resources
and capabilities. Having an inappropriate organization in place
prevented Sony from exploiting its valuable, rare, and costly-to-
imitate resources and capabilities.


Earlier in this chapter, it was suggested that Sony had unusual
experience in designing and building a wide variety of consumer
electronics products. In the process of building this giant consumer
electronics company, managers at Sony developed and acquired two
substantial businesses: Sony Consumer Electronics and Sony
Records.
Among the many products developed by the Consumer Electronics
business was an early MP3 player (i.e., a portable device that played
music and other digital media from a hard drive). The key to MP3
technology was compression—taking analog signals and storing
them in a way that they did not take up disproportionate space on
the hard drive. Without compression, you could only store a few
songs on an MP3 player; with compression, you can store
thousands. Sony was a leader in compression technology.


Of course, to be effective, MP3 players must have content to play.
Here, the Sony Records Division should have been very helpful to
the Consumer Electronics Division: Records had recording contracts
with many famous artists, and Consumer Products had the MP3
player (along with compression technology) to play that music.


So, why does Apple—with iPods, iTunes, iPhones, and iPads—
dominate the portable music listening market? Apple had no
advantages. It was late to the MP3 market (although it did introduce
an MP3 player with a particularly elegant interface), it did not own
any content, and it had a limited online presence.


One explanation of Apple’s success is Sony’s failure—despite
having the potential to dominate this market, despite its history of
dominating similar markets in the past (e.g., the Sony Walkman
portable tape player), Sony could not find a way for its two divisions
—Consumer Electronics and Music—to cooperate. Put differently,
Sony’s failure was a failure in organization. The engineers in the
Consumer Electronics business could never find a way to work with
the artists in the music business.


Of course, Apple had to do a great deal more to take advantage of
the opportunity that Sony’s organization failure had created for them.
Nevertheless, despite its potential, Sony failed to gain or sustain any
significant competitive advantages in this lucrative MP3 market.31
Applying the VRIO Framework
Objective 3.3 Be able to apply the VRIO framework to identify the
               competitive implications of a firm’s resources and
               capabilities.

The questions of value, rarity, imitability, and organization can be
brought together into a single framework to understand the return
potential associated with exploiting any of a firm’s resources or
capabilities. This is done in Table 3.3 . The relationship of the
VRIO framework to strengths and weaknesses is presented in Table
3.4 .




Table 3.3 The VRIO Framework
Table 3.4 The Relationship Between the VRIO Framework and
Organizational Strengths and Weaknesses

If a resource or capability controlled by a firm is not valuable, it will
not enable a firm to choose or implement strategies that exploit
environmental opportunities or neutralize environmental threats.
Organizing to exploit this resource will increase a firm’s costs or
decrease its revenues. These types of resources are weaknesses.
Firms must fix these weaknesses or avoid using them when
choosing and implementing strategies. If firms do exploit these kinds
of resources and capabilities, they can expect to put themselves at a
competitive disadvantage compared to those that either do not
possess these nonvaluable resources or do not use them in
conceiving and implementing strategies.


If a resource or capability is valuable but not rare, exploitation of this
resource in conceiving and implementing strategies will generate
competitive parity. Exploiting these types of resources will generally
not create competitive advantages, but failure to exploit them can put
a firm at a competitive disadvantage. In this sense, valuable-but-not-
rare resources can be thought of as organizational strengths.


If a resource or capability is valuable and rare but not costly to
imitate, exploiting this resource will generate a temporary
competitive advantage for a firm. A firm that exploits this kind of
resource is, in an important sense, gaining a first-mover advantage
because it is the first firm that can exploit a particular resource.
However, once competing firms observe this competitive advantage,
they will be able to acquire or develop the resources needed to
implement this strategy through direct duplication or substitution at
no cost disadvantage, compared to the first-moving firm. Over time,
any competitive advantage that the first mover obtained would be
competed away as other firms imitate the resources needed to
compete. Consequently, this type of resource or capability can be
thought of as an organizational strength and as a distinctive
competence .


If a resource or capability is valuable, rare, and costly to imitate,
exploiting it will generate a sustained competitive advantage. In this
case, competing firms face a significant cost disadvantage in
imitating a successful firm’s resources and capabilities. As
suggested earlier, this competitive advantage may reflect the unique
history of the successful firm, causal ambiguity about which
resources to imitate, the socially complex nature of these resources
and capabilities, or any patent advantages a firm might possess. In
any case, attempts to compete away the advantages of firms that
exploit these resources will not generate competitive advantage, or
even competitive parity, for imitating firms. Even if these firms can
acquire or develop the resources or capabilities in question, the very
high costs of doing so would put them at a competitive disadvantage.
These kinds of resources and capabilities are organizational
strengths and sustainable distinctive competencies .


The question of organization operates as an adjustment factor in the
VRIO framework. For example, if a firm has a valuable, rare, and
costly-to-imitate resource and capability but fails to organize itself to
take full advantage of this resource, some of its potential competitive
advantage could be lost (this is the Sony example). Extremely poor
organization, in this case, could actually lead a firm that has the
potential for competitive advantage to gain only competitive parity or
competitive disadvantages.
Applying the VRIO Framework to
Southwest Airlines
To examine how the VRIO framework can be applied in analyzing
real strategic situations, consider the competitive position of
Southwest Airlines. Southwest Airlines has been the only
consistently profitable airline in the United States over the past 30
years. While many U.S. airlines have gone in and out of bankruptcy,
Southwest has remained profitable. How could it gain this
competitive advantage?


Potential sources of this competitive advantage fall into two big
categories: operational choices Southwest has made and
Southwest’s approach to managing its people. On the operational
side, Southwest has chosen to fly only a single type of aircraft
(Boeing 737), only flies into smaller airports, has avoided
complicated hub-and-spoke route systems, and, instead, flies a
point-to-point system. On the people-management side, despite
being highly unionized, Southwest has been able to develop a sense
of commitment and loyalty among its employees. It is not unusual to
see Southwest employees go well beyond their narrowly defined job
responsibilities, helping out in whatever way is necessary to get a
plane off the ground safely and on time. Which of these—operational
choices or Southwest’s approach to managing its people—is more
likely to be a source of sustained competitive advantage?
Southwest’s Operational Choices and
Competitive Advantage
Consider first Southwest’s operational choices. First, do these
operational choices reduce Southwest’s costs or increase the
willingness of its customers to pay—that is, are these operational
choices valuable? It can be shown that most of Southwest’s
operational choices have the effect of reducing its costs. For
example, by flying only one type of airliner, Southwest can reduce
the cost of training its maintenance staff, reduce its spare parts
inventory, and reduce the time its planes are being repaired. By
flying into smaller airports, Southwest reduces the fees it would
otherwise have to pay to land at larger airports. Its point-to-point
system of routes avoids the costs associated with establishing large
hub-and-spoke systems. Overall, these operational choices are
valuable.

Second, are these operational choices rare? For most of its history,
Southwest’s operational choices have been rare. Only recently have
large incumbent airlines and smaller new entrants begun to
implement similar operational choices.

Third, are these operational choices costly to imitate? Several
incumbent airline firms have set up subsidiaries designed to emulate
most of Southwest’s operational choices. For example, Continental
created the Continental Lite division, United created the Ted division,
and Delta created the Song division. All of these divisions chose a
single type of airplane to fly, flew into smaller airports, adopted a
point-to-point route structure, and so forth.

In addition to these incumbent airlines, many new entrants into the
airline industry—both in the United States and elsewhere—have
adopted similar operational choices as Southwest. In the United
States, these new entrants include AirTran Airlines (recently
purchased by Southwest), Allegiant Airlines, JetBlue, Skybus Airlines
(now bankrupt), Spirit Airlines, and Virgin American Airlines.


Thus, while Southwest’s operational choices are valuable and have
been rare, they are apparently not costly to imitate. This is not
surprising because these operational choices have few of the
attributes of resources or capabilities that are costly to imitate. They
do not derive from a firm’s unique history, they are not path
dependent, they are not causally ambiguous, and they are not
socially complex.


Finally, is Southwest organized to fully exploit its operational
choices? Most observers agree that Southwest’s structure,
management controls, and compensation policies are consistent with
its operational choices.


Taken together, this analysis of Southwest’s operational choices
suggests that they are valuable, have been rare, but are not costly to
imitate. While Southwest is organized to exploit these opportunities,
they are likely to be only a source of temporary competitive
advantage for Southwest.
Southwest’s People-Management
and Competitive Advantage
A similar VRIO analysis can be conducted for Southwest’s approach
to people management. First, is this approach valuable; that is, does
it reduce Southwest’s costs or increase the willingness of its
customers to pay?

Employee commitment and loyalty at Southwest is one explanation
of why Southwest can get higher levels of employee productivity
than most other U.S. airlines. This increased productivity shows up
in numerous ways. For example, the average turnaround time for
Southwest flights is around 18 minutes. The average turnaround
time for the average U.S. airline is 45 minutes. Southwest Airline
employees are simply more effective in unloading and loading
luggage, fueling, and catering their airplanes than employees in
other airlines. This means that Southwest Airlines airplanes are on
the ground for less time and in the air more time than its competitors.
Of course, an airplane is only making money if it is in the air. This
seemingly simple idea is worth hundreds of millions of dollars in
lower costs to Southwest.

Have such loyalty and teamwork been rare in the U.S. airline
industry? Over the past 15 years, the U.S. airline industry has been
wracked by employment strife. Many airlines have had to cut
employment, reduce wages, and in other ways strain their
relationship with their employees. Overall, in comparison to
incumbent airlines, the relationship that Southwest enjoys with its
employees has been rare.


Is this relationship costly to imitate? Certainly, relationships between
an airline and its employees have many of the attributes that should
make them costly to imitate. They emerge over time; they are path
dependent, causally ambiguous, and socially complex. It is
reasonable to expect that incumbent airlines, airlines that already
have strained relationships with their employees, would have
difficulty imitating the relationship Southwest enjoys with its
employees. Thus, in comparison to incumbent airlines, Southwest’s
approach to managing its people is probably valuable, rare, and
costly to imitate. Assuming it is organized appropriately (and this
seems to be the case), this would mean that—relative to incumbent
airlines—Southwest has a sustained competitive advantage.


The situation may be somewhat different for new entrants into the
U.S. airline industry. These airlines may not have a history of
strained employee relationships. As new firms, they may be able to
develop more valuable employee relationships from the very
beginning. This suggests that, relative to new entrants, Southwest’s
approach to people management may be valuable and rare, but not
costly to imitate. Again, assuming Southwest is organized
appropriately, relative to new entrants into the U.S. airline industry,
Southwest’s people-management capabilities may be a source of
only a temporary competitive advantage.
Imitation and Competitive
Dynamics in an Industry
Objective 3.4 Discuss important implications of the resource-based
              view, including:
                  a. How value chain analysis can be used to
                     identify a firm’s valuable resources and
                     capabilities.
                  b. The kinds of resources and capabilities that
                     are likely to be costly to imitate.
                  c. How a firm uses its structure, formal and
                     informal control processes, and compensation
                     policy to exploit its resources.

Suppose a firm in an industry has conducted an analysis of its
resources and capabilities, concludes that it possesses some
valuable, rare, and costly-to-imitate resources and capabilities, and
uses these to choose a strategy that it implements with the
appropriate organizational structure, formal and informal
management controls, and compensation policies. The RBV
suggests that this firm will gain a competitive advantage even if it is
operating in what an environmental threat analysis (see Chapter
2 ) would suggest is a very unattractive industry. Examples of firms
that have competitive advantages in unattractive industries include
Southwest Airlines, Nucor Steel, and Wal-Mart, to name a few.
Given that a particular firm in an industry has a competitive
advantage, how should other firms respond? Decisions made by
other firms given the strategic choices of a particular firm define the
nature of the competitive dynamics that exist in an industry. In
general, other firms in an industry can respond to the advantages of
a competitor in one of three ways. First, they can choose to limit their
response. For example, when Wal-Mart entered the discount grocery
market with the creation of Super Walmarts, some competitors (e.g.,
Safeway) ignored Wal-Mart’s moves and continued as before. Other
competitors (e.g., Kroger) modified some of their tactics, including,
for example, selling more prepared foods and more specialty foods
than before. Finally, other firms fundamentally altered their strategies
(e.g., Target began building stores that also sold discount groceries).
Not Responding to Another Firm’s
Competitive Advantage
A firm might not respond to another firm’s competitive advantage for
at least three reasons. First, this firm might have its own competitive
advantage. By responding to another firm’s competitive advantage, it
might destroy, or at least compromise, its own sources of competitive
advantage. For example, digital timekeeping has made accurate
watches available to most consumers at reasonable prices. A firm
such as Casio has a competitive advantage in this market because
of its miniaturization and electronic capabilities. Indeed, Casio’s
market share and performance in the watch business continue to
climb although demand for watches, overall, has gone down. How
should Rolex—a manufacturer of very expensive, non-electronic
watches—respond to Casio? Rolex’s decision has been: Not at all.
Rolex appeals to a very different market segment than Casio. Should
Rolex change its strategies—even if it replaced its mechanical self-
winding design with the technologically superior digital design—it
could easily compromise its competitive advantage in its own niche
market.32 In general, when a firm already possesses its own sources
of competitive advantage, it will not respond to different sources of
competitive advantage controlled by another firm.


Second, a firm may not respond to another firm’s competitive
advantage because it does not have the resources and capabilities
to do so. A firm with insufficient or inappropriate resources and
capabilities—be they physical, financial, human, or organizational—
typically will not be able to imitate a successful firm’s resources
either through direct duplication or substitution. This may very well
be the case with American Airlines and Southwest Airlines. It may
simply be beyond the ability of American to imitate Southwest’s
managerial resources and capabilities. In this setting, American
Airlines is likely to find itself at a sustained competitive
disadvantage.33


Finally, a firm may not respond to the advantages of a competitor
because it is trying to reduce the level of rivalry in an industry. Any
actions a firm takes that have the effect of reducing the level of
rivalry in an industry and that also do not require firms in an industry
to directly communicate or negotiate with each other can be thought
of as tacit collusion    . This strategy will be discussed in detail in
Chapter 7     .
Changing Tactics in Response to
Another Firm’s Competitive
Advantage
Tactics    are the specific actions a firm takes to implement its
strategies. Examples of tactics include decisions firms make about
various attributes of their products—including size, shape, color, and
price—specific advertising approaches adopted by a firm, and
specific sales and marketing efforts. Generally, firms change their
tactics much more frequently than they change their strategies.34


When competing firms are pursuing approximately the same
strategies, the competitive advantages that any one firm might enjoy
at a given point in time are most likely due to the tactics that that firm
is pursuing. In this setting, it is not unusual for competing firms to
change their tactics by imitating the tactics of the firm with an
advantage to reduce that firm’s advantage. Although changing one’s
tactics in this manner will only generate competitive parity, this is
usually better than the competitive disadvantage these firms were
experiencing.


Several industries provide excellent examples of these kinds of
tactical interactions. In consumer goods, for example, if one
company increases its sales by adding a “lemon scent” to laundry
detergent, then lemon scents start showing up in everyone’s laundry
detergent. If Coke starts selling a soft drink with half the sugar and
half the carbs of regular Coke, can Pepsi’s low-sugar/low-carb
product be far behind? And when Delta Airlines cuts it airfares, can
American and United be far behind? Not surprisingly, these kinds of
tactical changes, because they initially may be valuable and rare, are
seldom costly to imitate and thus are typically only sources of
temporary competitive advantage.


Sometimes, rather than simply imitating the tactics of a firm with a
competitive advantage, a firm at a disadvantage may “leapfrog” its
competitors by developing an entirely new set of tactics. Procter &
Gamble engaged in this strategy when it introduced its laundry
detergent, Tide, in a new, concentrated formula. This new
formulation required new manufacturing and packaging equipment—
the smaller box could not be filled in the current manufacturing lines
in the industry—which meant that Tide’s competitors had to take
more time in imitating the concentrated laundry detergent tactic than
other tactics pursued in this industry. Nevertheless, within just a few
weeks other firms in this market were introducing their own versions
of concentrated laundry detergent.


Indeed, some firms can become so skilled at innovating new
products and other tactics that this innovative capability can be a
source of sustained competitive advantage. Consider, for example,
Sony during its heydays. Most observers agree that Sony possessed
some special management and innovation skills that enabled it to
conceive, design, and manufacture high-quality miniaturized
consumer electronics. However, virtually every time Sony brought
out a new miniaturized product several of its competitors quickly
duplicated that product through reverse engineering, thereby
reducing Sony’s technological advantage. In what way can Sony’s
socially complex miniaturization resources and capabilities be a
source of sustained competitive advantage when most of Sony’s
products were quickly imitated through direct duplication?

After Sony introduced each new product, it experienced a rapid
increase in profits attributable to the new product’s unique features.
This increase, however, leads other firms to reverse-engineer the
Sony product and introduce their own versions. Increased
competition resulted in a reduction in the profits associated with a
new product. Thus, at the level of individual products, Sony
apparently enjoys only temporary competitive advantages. However,
looking at the total returns earned by Sony across all of its new
products over time makes clear the source of Sony’s sustained
competitive advantage. By exploiting its resources and capabilities in
miniaturization, Sony was able to constantly introduce new and
exciting personal electronics products. No single product generated
a sustained competitive advantage, but, over time, across several
such product introductions, Sony’s resource and capability
advantages led to sustained competitive advantages.35
Changing Strategies in Response
to Another Firm’s Competitive
Advantage
Finally, firms sometimes respond to another firm’s competitive
advantage by changing their strategies. Obviously, this does not
occur very often, and it typically only occurs when another firm’s
strategies usurp a firm’s competitive advantage. In this setting, a firm
will not be able to gain even competitive parity if it maintains its
strategy, even if it implements that strategy very effectively.


Changes in consumer tastes, in population demographics, and in the
laws that govern a business can all have the effect of rendering what
once was a valuable strategy as valueless. However, the most
frequent impact is changes in technology. For example, no matter
how well made a mechanical calculator is, it is simply inferior to an
electronic calculator. No matter how efficient the telegraph was in its
day, it is an inferior technology to the telephone. And no matter how
quickly one’s fingers can move the beads on an abacus, an
electronic cash register is a better way of keeping track of sales and
making change in a store.

When firms change their strategies, they must proceed through the
entire strategic management process, as described in Chapter 1          .
However, these firms will often have difficulty abandoning their
traditional strategies. For most firms, their strategy helps define what
they do and who they are. Changing its strategy often requires a firm
to change its identity and its purposes. These are difficult changes to
make, and many firms wait to change their strategy until absolutely
forced to do so by disastrous financial results. By then, these firms
not only have to change their strategy—with all that implies—they
must do so in the face of significant financial pressures.

The ability of virtually all strategies to generate competitive
advantages typically expires, sooner or later. In general, it is much
better for a firm to change its strategy before that strategy is no
longer viable. In this way, a firm can make a planned move to a new
strategy that maintains whatever resources and capabilities it still
possesses while it develops the new resources and capabilities it will
need to compete in the future.
Implications of the Resource-
Based View
The RBV and the VRIO framework can be applied to individual firms
to understand whether these firms will gain competitive advantages,
how sustainable these competitive advantages are likely to be, and
what the sources of these competitive advantages are. In this way,
the RBV and the VRIO framework can be understood as important
complements to the threats and opportunities analyses described in
Chapter 2 .


However, beyond what these frameworks can say about the
competitive performance of a particular firm, the RBV has some
broader implications for managers seeking to gain competitive
advantages. Some of these broader implications are listed in Table
3.5 and discussed in the following section.

Table 3.5 Broader Implications of the Resource-Based View
Where Does the Responsibility for
Competitive Advantage in a Firm
Reside?
First, the RBV suggests that competitive advantages can be found in
several of the different resources and capabilities controlled by the
firm. These resources and capabilities are not limited to those that
are controlled directly by a firm’s senior managers. Thus, the
responsibility for creating, nurturing, and exploiting valuable, rare,
and costly-to-imitate resources and capabilities for competitive
advantage is not restricted to senior managers, but falls on every
employee in a firm. Therefore, employees should go beyond defining
their jobs in functional terms and instead define their jobs in
competitive and economic terms.


Consider a simple example. In a recent visit to a very successful
automobile manufacturing plant, the plant manager was asked to
describe his job responsibilities. He said, “My job is to manage this
plant in order to help the firm make and sell the best cars in the
world.” In response to a similar question, the person in charge of the
manufacturing line said, “My job is to manage this manufacturing line
in order to help the firm make and sell the best cars in the world.” A
janitor was also asked to describe his job responsibilities. Although
he had not been present in the two earlier interviews, the janitor
responded, “My job is to keep this facility clean in order to help the
firm make and sell the best cars in the world.”


Which of these three employees is most likely to be a source of
sustained competitive advantage for this firm? Certainly, the plant
manager and the manufacturing line manager should define their
jobs in terms of helping the firm make and sell the best cars in the
world. However, it is unlikely that their responses to this question
would be any different than the responses of other senior managers
at other manufacturing plants around the world. Put differently,
although the definition of these two managers’ jobs in terms of
enabling the firm to make and sell the best cars in the world is
valuable, it is unlikely to be rare, and thus it is likely to be a source of
competitive parity, not competitive advantage. However, a janitor
who defines her job as helping the firm make and sell the best cars
in the world instead of simply to clean the facility is, most would
agree, quite unusual. Because it is rare, it might be a source of at
least a temporary competitive advantage.36


The value created by one janitor defining her job in competitive
terms rather than functional terms is not huge, but suppose that all
the employees in this plant defined their jobs in these terms.
Suddenly, the value that might be created could be substantial.
Moreover, the organizational culture and tradition in a firm that would
lead employees to define their jobs in this way are likely to be costly
for other firms to imitate. Thus, if this approach to defining job
responsibilities is broadly diffused in a particular plant, it seems likely
to be valuable, rare, and costly to imitate and thus a source of
sustained competitive advantage, assuming the firm is organized to
take advantage of this unusual resource.


In the end, it is clear that competitive advantage is too important to
remain the sole property of senior management. To the extent that
employees throughout an organization are empowered to develop
and exploit valuable, rare, and costly-to-imitate resources and
capabilities in the accomplishment of their job responsibilities, a firm
may actually be able to gain sustained competitive advantages.
Competitive Parity and
Competitive Advantage
Second, the RBV suggests that, if all a firm does is create value in
the same way as its competitors, the best performance it can ever
expect to gain is competitive parity. To do better than competitive
parity, firms must engage in valuable and rare activities. They must
do things to create economic value that other firms have not even
thought of, let alone implemented.

This is especially critical for firms that find themselves at a
competitive disadvantage. Such a firm certainly should examine its
more successful competition, understand what has made this
competition so successful, and, where imitation has a very low cost,
imitate the successful actions of its competitors. In this sense,
benchmarking a firm’s performance against the performance of its
competitors can be extremely important.


However, if this is all that a firm does, it can only expect to gain
competitive parity. Gaining competitive advantage depends on a firm
discovering its own unique resources and capabilities and how they
can be used in choosing and implementing strategies. For a firm
seeking competitive advantage, it is better to be excellent in how it
develops and exploits its own unique resources and capabilities than
it is to be excellent in how it imitates the resources and capabilities of
other firms.
This does not imply that firms must always be first movers to gain
competitive advantages. Some firms develop valuable, rare, and
costly-to-imitate resources and capabilities in being efficient second
movers—that is, in rapidly imitating and improving on the product
and technological innovations of other firms. Rather than suggesting
that firms must always be first movers, the RBV suggests that, to
gain competitive advantages, firms must implement strategies that
rely on valuable, rare, and costly-to-imitate resources and
capabilities, whatever those strategies or resources might be.
Difficult-to-Implement Strategies
Third, as firms contemplate different strategic options, they often ask
how difficult and costly it will be to implement different strategies. If
the cost of implementing a strategy is less than the value that a
strategy creates, the RBV suggests that the critical question facing
firms is not, “Is a strategy easy to implement or not?” but rather, “Is
this strategy easier for us to implement than it is for our competitors
to implement?” Firms that already possess the valuable, rare, and
costly-to-imitate resources needed to implement a strategy will, in
general, find it easier (i.e., less costly) to implement a strategy than
firms that first must develop the required resources and then
implement the proposed strategy. For firms that already possess a
resource, strategy implementation can be natural and swift.

In understanding the relative costs of implementing a strategy, firms
can make two errors. First, they can overestimate the uniqueness of
the resources they control. Although every firm’s history is unique
and no two management teams are exactly the same, this does not
always mean that a firm’s resources and capabilities will be rare.
Firms with similar histories operating in similar industries will often
develop similar capabilities. If a firm overestimates the rarity of its
resources and capabilities, it can overestimate its ability to generate
competitive advantages.


For example, when asked what their most critical sources of
competitive advantage are, many firms will cite the quality of their top
management team, the quality of their technology, and their
commitment to excellence in all that they do. When pushed about
their competitors, these same firms will admit that they too have
high-quality top management teams, high-quality technology, and a
commitment to excellence in all that they do. Although these three
attributes can be sources of competitive parity, they cannot be
sources of competitive advantage.

Second, firms can sometimes underestimate their uniqueness and
thus underestimate the extent to which the strategies they pursue
can be sources of sustained competitive advantage. When firms
possess valuable, rare, and costly-to-imitate resources, strategy
implementation can be relatively easy. In this context, it seems
reasonable to expect that other firms will be able to quickly imitate
this “easy-to-implement” strategy. Of course, this is not the case if
these resources controlled by a firm are, in fact, rare and costly to
imitate.


In general, firms must take great care not to overestimate or
underestimate their uniqueness. An accurate assessment of the
value, rarity, and imitability of a firm’s resources is necessary to
develop an accurate understanding of the relative costs of
implementing a firm’s strategies and, thus, the ability of those
strategies to generate competitive advantages. Often, firms must
employ outside assistance in helping them describe the rarity and
imitability of their resources, even though managers in firms will
generally be much more familiar with the resources controlled by a
firm than outsiders. However, outsiders can provide a measure of
objectivity in evaluating the uniqueness of a firm.




Socially Complex Resources
Over the past several decades, much has been written about the
importance of employee empowerment, organizational culture, and
teamwork for firm performance. Most of this work suggests that firms
that empower employees, that have an enabling culture, and that
encourage teamwork will, on average, make better strategic choices
and implement them more efficiently than firms without these
organizational attributes. Using the language of the RBV, most of this
work has suggested that employee empowerment, organizational
culture, and teamwork, at least in some settings, are economically
valuable.37


Resource-based logic acknowledges the importance of the value of
these organizational attributes. However, it also suggests that these
socially complex resources and capabilities can be rare and costly to
imitate—and it is these attributes that make it possible for socially
complex resources and capabilities to be sources of sustained
competitive advantage. Put differently, the RBV actually extends and
broadens traditional analyses of the socially complex attributes of
firms. Not only can these attributes be valuable, but they can also be
rare and costly to imitate and, thus, sources of sustained competitive
advantage.
The Role of Organization
Finally, resource-based logic suggests that an organization’s
structure, control systems, and compensation policies should
support and enable a firm’s efforts to fully exploit the valuable, rare,
and costly-to-imitate resources and capabilities it controls. These
attributes of organization, by themselves, are usually not sources of
sustained competitive advantage.


These observations suggest that if there is a conflict between the
resources a firm controls and that firm’s organization, the
organization should be changed. However, it is often the case that
once a firm’s structure, control systems, and compensation policies
are put in place they tend to remain, regardless of whether they are
consistent with a firm’s underlying resources and capabilities. In
such settings, a firm will not be able to realize the full competitive
potential of its underlying resource base. To the extent that a firm’s
resources and capabilities are continuously evolving, its
organizational structure, control systems, and compensation policies
must also evolve. For these attributes of organization to evolve,
managers must be aware of their link with a firm’s resources and
capabilities and of organizational alternatives.
Summary
The RBV is an economic theory that suggests that firm performance
is a function of the types of resources and capabilities controlled by
firms. Resources are the tangible and intangible assets a firm uses
to conceive and implement its strategies. Capabilities are a subset of
resources that enable a firm to take advantage of its other resources.
Resources and capabilities can be categorized into financial,
physical, human, and organizational resources categories.

The RBV makes two assumptions about resources and capabilities:
the assumption of resource heterogeneity (that some resources and
capabilities may be heterogeneously distributed across competing
firms) and the assumption of resource immobility (that this
heterogeneity may be long lasting). These two assumptions can be
used to describe conditions under which firms will gain competitive
advantages by exploiting their resources.

A tool for analyzing a firm’s internal strengths and weaknesses can
be derived from the RBV. Called the VRIO framework, this tool asks
four questions about a firm’s resources and capabilities to evaluate
their competitive potential. These questions are the question of
value, the question of rarity, the question of imitability, and the
question of organization.
A firm’s resources and capabilities are valuable when they enable it
to exploit external opportunities or neutralize external threats. Such
valuable resources and capabilities are a firm’s strengths. Resources
and capabilities that are not valuable are a firm’s weaknesses. Using
valuable resources to exploit external opportunities or neutralize
external threats will have the effect of increasing a firm’s net
revenues or decreasing its net costs.


One way to identify a firm’s valuable resources and capabilities is by
examining its value chain. A firm’s value chain is the list of business
activities it engages in to develop, produce, and sell its products or
services. Different stages in this value chain require different
resources and capabilities, and differences in value chain choices
across firms can lead to important differences among the resources
and capabilities controlled by different companies. A generic value
chain has been developed by McKinsey and Company.

Valuable and common (i.e., not rare) resources and capabilities can
be a source of competitive parity. Failure to invest in such resources
can create a competitive disadvantage for a firm. Valuable and rare
resources can be a source of at least a temporary competitive
advantage. There are fewer firms able to control such a resource
and still exploit it as a source of at least temporary competitive
advantage than there are firms that will generate perfect competition
dynamics in an industry.


Valuable, rare, and costly-to-imitate resources and capabilities can
be a source of sustained competitive advantage. Imitation can occur
through direct duplication or through substitution. A firm’s resources
and capabilities may be costly to imitate for at least four reasons:
unique historical circumstances, causal ambiguity, socially complex
resources and capabilities, and patents.


To take full advantage of the potential of its resources and
capabilities, a firm must be appropriately organized. A firm’s
organization consists of its formal reporting structure, its formal and
informal control processes, and its compensation policy. These are
complementary resources in that they are rarely sources of
competitive advantage on their own.


The VRIO framework can be used to identify the competitive
implications of a firm’s resources and capabilities—whether they are
a source of competitive disadvantage, competitive parity, temporary
competitive advantage, or sustained competitive advantage—and
the extent to which these resources and capabilities are strengths or
weaknesses.


When a firm faces a competitor that has a sustained competitive
advantage, the firm’s options are to not respond, to change its
tactics, or to change its strategies. A firm may choose not to respond
in this setting for at least three reasons. First, a response might
weaken its own sources of sustained competitive advantage.
Second, a firm may not have the resources required to respond.
Third, a firm may be trying to create or maintain tacit cooperation
within an industry.
The RBV has a series of broader managerial implications as well.
For example, resource-based logic suggests that competitive
advantage is every employee’s responsibility. It also suggests that if
all a firm does is what its competition does, it can gain only
competitive parity, and that in gaining competitive advantage it is
better for a firm to exploit its own valuable, rare, and costly-to-imitate
resources than to imitate the valuable and rare resources of a
competitor. Also, resource-based logic implies that if the cost of
strategy implementation is less than the value of strategy
implementation, the relative cost of implementing a strategy is more
important for competitive advantage than the absolute cost of
implementing a strategy. It also implies that firms can systematically
overestimate and underestimate their uniqueness. Regarding a
firm’s resources and capabilities, resource-based logic suggests that
not only can employee empowerment, organizational culture, and
teamwork be valuable; they can also be sources of sustained
competitive advantage. Also, if conflicts arise between a firm’s
valuable, rare, and costly-to-imitate resources and its organization,
the organization should be changed.
MyLab Management
Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management to
complete the problems marked with this icon .
Challenge Questions
   3.1. Explain which of the following approaches to strategy
   formulation is more likely to generate economic profits: (a)
   evaluating external opportunities and threats and then
   developing resources and capabilities to exploit these
   opportunities and neutralize these threats; or (b) evaluating
   internal resources and capabilities and then searching for
   industries where they can be exploited?
   3.2. Which firm will have a higher level of economic
   performance: (a) a firm with valuable, rare, and costly-to-
   imitate resources and capabilities operating in a very
   attractive industry; or (b) a firm with valuable, rare, and costly-
   to-imitate resources and capabilities operating in a very
   unattractive industry? Assume both these firms are
   appropriately organized. Explain your answer.
   3.3. Considering which is more critical to sustaining human
   life—water or diamonds—why do firms that provide water to
   customers generally earn lower economic performance than
   firms that provide diamonds?
       3.4. Why would a firm currently experiencing competitive
   parity be able to gain sustained competitive advantages by
   studying another firm that is currently experiencing sustained
   competitive advantages?
   3.5. Your former college roommate calls you and asks to
   borrow $10,000 so that he can open a pizza restaurant in his
hometown. He acknowledges that there is a high degree of
direct competition in this market, that the cost of entry is low,
and that there are numerous substitutes for pizza, but he
believes that his pizza restaurant will have some sustained
competitive advantages. For example, he is going to have
sawdust on his floor, a variety of imported beers, and a late-
night delivery service. What are the risks in lending him the
money?
3.6. Recently, Boeing did not respond to Airbus’s
announcement of the development of a super-jumbo aircraft,
the A380. Assuming this aircraft will give Airbus a competitive
advantage in the segment of the airliner business that
supplies airplanes for long international flights, why do you
think that Boeing might not have responded?
    3.7. Between the following two firms, which one is more
likely to be successful in exploiting its sources of sustained
competitive advantage in its home market than in a highly
competitive, nondomestic market: (a) a firm from a less
competitive home country; or (b) a firm from a more
competitive home country? Why?
Problem Set
  3.8. Apply the VRIO framework in the following settings. Will
  the actions described be a source of competitive
  disadvantage, parity, temporary advantage, or sustained
  competitive advantage? Explain your answers.
      a. Procter & Gamble introduces new, smaller packaging
          for its Tide laundry detergent.
      b. American Airlines announces a 5 percent across-the-
          board reduction in airfares.
      c. The Korean automobile firm Hyundai announces a 10-
          year, 100,000-mile warranty on its cars.
      d. Microsoft makes it easier to transfer data and
          information from Microsoft Word to Microsoft Excel.
      e. Merck can coordinate the work of its chemists and
          biologists in the development of new drugs.
       f. Ford patents a new kind of brake pad for its cars.
      g. Ashland Chemical, a specialty chemical company,
          patents a new chemical.
      h. The New York Yankees sign All-Star pitcher Randy
          Johnson to a long-term contract.
       i. Michael Dell uses the money he has made from Dell to
          purchase the Dallas Cowboys football team.
       j. Ted Turner uses the money he has made from his
          broadcasting empire to purchase the Atlanta Braves
          baseball team.
3.9. Identify three firms you might want to work for. Using the
VRIO framework, evaluate the extent to which the resources
and capabilities of these firms give them the potential to
realize competitive disadvantages, parity, temporary
advantages, or sustained advantages. What implications, if
any, does this analysis have for the company you might want
to work for?
3.10. You have been assigned to estimate the present value
of a potential construction project for your company. How
would you use the VRIO framework to construct the cash-flow
analysis that is a part of any present-value calculation?
MyLab Management
Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management for
Auto-graded writing questions as well as the following
Assisted-graded writing questions:


         3.11. Give an example of how you would
      apply value chain analysis to identify a firm’s
      valuable resources and capabilities.
         3.12. What is required for a firm to gain a
      sustained competitive advantage from a
      resource considered rare?
End Notes
1    www.Google.com; D. Vise and M. Malseed (2005). The Google Story. NY: Bantam;
//Wikipedia/history-of-internet-search-engines. Retrieved July 5, 2013; “Google’s Ad
Revenues Hit $19 Billion,” Adweek, July 28, 2016, retrieved November 10, 2016; “YouTube
Earnt $9 Bn in Revenue Last Year,” Music Business World, January 5, 2016, Retrieved
November 10, 2016; P.Sikka “Must Know: Why did Google Sell Its Motorola Business to
Lenovo?” Market Realist, March 11, 2014, Retrieved November
2    The term the resource-based view was coined by Wernerfelt, B. (1984). “A resource-
based view of the firm.” Strategic Management Journal, 5, pp. 171–180. Some important
early contributors to this theory include Rumelt, R. P. (1984). “Toward a strategic theory of
the firm.” In R. Lamb (ed.), Competitive strategic management (pp. 556–570). Upper Saddle
River, NJ: Prentice Hall; and Barney, J. B. (1986). “Strategic factor markets: Expectations,
luck and business strategy.” Management Science, 32, pp. 1512–1514. A second wave of
important early resource-based theoretical work includes Barney, J. B. (1991). “Firm
resources and sustained competitive advantage.” Journal of Management, 7, pp. 49–64;
Dierickx, I., and K. Cool. (1989). “Asset stock accumulation and sustainability of competitive
advantage.” Management Science, 35, pp. 1504–1511; Conner, K. R. (1991). “A historical
comparison of resource-based theory and five schools of thought within industrial
organization economics: Do we have a new theory of the firm?” Journal of Management,
17(1), pp. 121–154; and Peteraf, M. A. (1993). “The cornerstones of competitive advantage:
A resource-based view.” Strategic Management Journal, 14, pp. 179–191. A review of much
of this early theoretical literature can be found in Mahoney, J. T., and J. R. Pandian. (1992).
“The resource-based view within the conversation of strategic management.” Strategic
Management Journal, 13, pp. 363–380. The theoretical perspective has also spawned a
growing body of empirical work, including Brush, T. H., and K. W. Artz. (1999). “Toward a
contingent resource-based theory.” Strategic Management Journal, 20, pp. 223–250;
Marcus, A., and D. Geffen. (1998). “The dialectics of competency acquisition.” Strategic
Management Journal, 19, pp. 1145–1168; Brush, T. H., P. Bromiley, and M. Hendrickx.
(1999). “The relative influence of industry and corporation on business segment
performance.” Strategic Management Journal, 20, pp. 519–547; Yeoh, P.-L., and K. Roth.
(1999). “An empirical analysis of sustained advantage in the U.S. pharmaceutical industry.”
Strategic Management Journal, 20, pp. 637–653; Roberts, P. (1999). “Product innovation,
product-market competition and persistent profitability in the U.S. pharmaceutical industry.”
Strategic Management Journal, 20, pp. 655–670; Gulati, R. (1999). “Network location and
learning.” Strategic Management Journal, 20, pp. 397–420; Lorenzoni, G., and A. Lipparini.
(1999). “The leveraging of interfirm relationships as a distinctive organizational capability.”
Strategic Management Journal, 20, pp. 317–338; Majumdar, S. (1998). “On the utilization of
resources.” Strategic Management Journal, 19(9), pp. 809–831; Makadok, R. (1997). “Do
inter-firm differences in capabilities affect strategic pricing dynamics?” Academy of
Management Proceedings ’97, pp. 30–34; Silverman, B. S., J. A. Nickerson, and J.
Freeman. (1997). “Profitability, transactional alignment, and organizational mortality in the
U.S. trucking industry.” Strategic Management Journal, 18 (Summer special issue), pp. 31–
52; Powell, T. C., and A. Dent-Micallef. (1997). “Information technology as competitive
advantage.” Strategic Management Journal, 18(5), pp. 375–405; Miller, D., and J. Shamsie.
(1996). “The Resource-based view of the firm in two environments.” Academy of
Management Journal, 39(3), pp. 519–543; and Maijoor, S., and A. Van Witteloostuijn.
(1996). “An empirical test of the resource-based theory.” Strategic Management Journal, 17,
pp. 549–569; Barnett, W. P., H. R. Greve, and D. Y. Park. (1994). “An evolutionary model of
organizational performance.” Strategic Management Journal, 15 (Winter special issue), pp.
11–28; Levinthal, D., and J. Myatt. (1994). “Co-evolution of capabilities and industry: The
evolution of mutual fund processing.” Strategic Management Journal, 17, pp. 45–62;
Henderson, R., and I. Cockburn. (1994). “Measuring competence? Exploring firm effects in
pharmaceutical research.” Strategic Management Journal, 15, pp. 63–84; Pisano, G. P.
(1994). “Knowledge, integration, and the locus of learning: An empirical analysis of process
development.” Strategic Management Journal, 15, pp. 85–100; and Zajac, E. J., and J. D.
Westphal. (1994). “The costs and benefits of managerial incentives and monitoring in large
U.S. corporations: When is more not better?” Strategic Management Journal, 15, pp. 121–
142.
3      Ghemawat, P. (1986). “Wal-Mart stores’ discount operations.” Harvard Business
School Case No. 9-387-018, on Wal-Mart; Kupfer, A. (1991). “The champion of cheap
clones.” Fortune, September 23, pp. 115–120; and Holder, D. (1989). “L. L. Bean, Inc.—
1974.” Harvard Business School Case No. 9-676-014, on L. L. Bean. Some of Wal-Mart’s
more recent moves, especially its international acquisitions, are described in Laing, J. R.
(1999). “Blimey! Wal-Mart.” Barron’s, 79, p. 14. L. L. Bean’s lethargic performance in the
1990s, together with its turnaround plan, is described in Symonds, W. (1998). “Paddling
harder at L. L. Bean.” BusinessWeek, December 7, p. 72.
4    For an early discussion of the importance of human capital in firms, see Becker, G. S.
(1964). Human capital. New York: Columbia University Press.
5    Heskett, J. L., and R. H. Hallowell. (1993). “Southwest Airlines: 1993 (A).” Harvard
Business School Case No. 9-695-023.
6    D. Ricardo (1817). Principles of political economy and taxation. London: J. Murray.
7    See Barney, J. (1991). “Firm resources and sustained competitive advantage.” Journal
of Management, 17, pp. 99–120.
8    See Schlender, B. R. (1992). “How Sony keeps the magic going.” Fortune, February
24, pp. 75–84; and (1999). “The weakling kicks back.” The Economist, July 3, p. 46, for a
discussion of Sony. See Krogh, L., J. Praeger, D. Sorenson, and J. Tomlinson. (1988). “How
3M evaluates its R&D programs.” Research Technology Management, 31, pp. 10–14.
9    Anders, G. (2002). “AOL’s true believers.” Fast Company, July pp. 96+; Karnitschnig,
M. (2006). “That’s all, folks: After years of pushing synergy, Time Warner, Inc. says enough.”
The Wall Street Journal, June 2, A1+; www.cnbc.com/2009/12/29/top-ten-best-
(andworst)-mergers-of-all-time (accessed January 6, 2017).
10    “AIDS in Africa.” British Medical Journal, June 1, p. 456 J. S. Friedman (2003).
“Paying for apartheid.” Nation, June 6, pp. 7+;L. Lee (2000). “Can Nike still do it?”
BusinessWeek, February 21, pp. 121+.
11    See Grant, R. M. (1991). Contemporary strategy analysis. Cambridge, MA: Basil
Blackwell.
12    See Miller, J. and Shales, T. (2011) ESPN: These guys have all the fun. NY: Little
Brown.
13    See Steinberg, D. (2013). “ESPN strives to maintain its lead as competition heats
up.” Variety.com/2013/tv/news. Accessed January 6, 2017. ESPN is also challenged by
recent trends in “unbundling” cable channels. Currently, ESPN receives fees from cable
users, whether those users watch ESPN or not. Unbundling and “cord cutting” would enable
consumers to pay for only that content they actually watch. These changes led ESPN, in
2015, to reduce its overall workforce by 4%. See sportsbusinessdaily.com/Journal/
Issues/2015/10/26/Media/ESPN. Accessed January 9, 2017.
14    Lipman, S., and R. Rumelt. (1982). “Uncertain imitability: An analysis of interfirm
differences in efficiency under competition.” Bell Journal of Economics, 13, pp. 418–438;
Barney, J. B. (1986). “Strategic factor markets: Expectations, luck and business strategy.”
Management Science, 32, pp. 1512–1514; and Barney, J. B. (1986). “Organizational
culture: Can it be a source of sustained competitive advantage?” Academy of Management
Review, 11, pp. 656–665.
15    Note that the definition of sustained competitive advantage presented here, though
different, is consistent with the definition given in Chapter 1       . In particular, a firm that
enjoys a competitive advantage for a long period of time (the Chapter 1             definition)
does not have its advantage competed away through imitation (the Chapter
3       definition).
16    These explanations of costly imitation were first developed by Dierickx, I., and K.
Cool. (1989). “Asset stock accumulation and sustainability of competitive advantage.”
Management Science, 35, pp. 1504–1511; Barney, J. B. (1991). “Firm resources and
sustained competitive advantage.” Journal of Management, 7, pp. 49–64; Mahoney, J. T.,
and J. R. Pandian. (1992). “The resource-based view within the conversation of strategic
management.” Strategic Management Journal, 13, pp. 363–380; and Peteraf, M. A. (1993).
“The cornerstones of competitive advantage: A resource-based view.” Strategic
Management Journal, 14, pp. 179–191.
17    Dierickx, I., and K. Cool. (1989). “Asset stock accumulation and sustainability of
competitive advantage.” Management Science, 35, pp. 1504–1511. In economics, the role
of history in determining competitive outcomes was first examined by Arthur, W. B. (1989).
“Competing technologies, increasing returns, and lock-in by historical events.” Economic
Journal, 99, pp. 116–131.
18    This term was first suggested by Arthur, W. B. (1989). “Competing technologies,
increasing returns, and lock-in by historical events.” Economic Journal, 99, pp. 116–131. A
good example of path dependence is the development of Silicon Valley and the important
role that Stanford University and a few early firms played in creating the network of
organizations that has since become the center of much of the electronics business. See
Alley, J. (1997). “The heart of Silicon Valley.” Fortune, July 7, pp. 86+.
19    Reed, R., and R. J. DeFillippi. (1990). “Causal ambiguity, barriers to imitation, and
sustainable competitive advantage.” Academy of Management Review, 15(1), pp. 88–102,
suggest that causal ambiguity about the sources of a firm’s competitive advantage need
only exist among a firm’s competitors for it to be a source of sustained competitive
advantage. Managers in a firm, they argue, may fully understand the sources of their
advantage. However, in a world where employees freely and frequently move from firm to
firm, such special insights into the sources of a firm’s competitive advantage would not
remain proprietary for very long. For this reason, for causal ambiguity to be a source of
sustained competitive advantage, both the firm trying to gain such an advantage and those
trying to imitate it must face similar levels of causal ambiguity. Indeed, Wal-Mart sued
Amazon for trying to steal some of its secrets by hiring employees away from Wal-Mart. See
Nelson, E. (1998). “Wal-Mart accuses Amazon.com of stealing its secrets in lawsuit.” The
Wall Street Journal, October 19, p. B10. For a discussion of how difficult it is to maintain
secrets, especially in a world of the World Wide Web, see Farnham, A. (1997). “How safe
are your secrets?” Fortune, September 8, pp. 114 + . The international dimensions of the
challenges associated with maintaining secrets are discussed in Robinson, E. (1998).
“China spies target corporate America.” Fortune, March 30, pp. 118 + .
20       Itami, H. (1987). Mobilizing invisible assets. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University
Press.
21       See Barney, J. B., and B. Tyler. (1990). “The attributes of top management teams
and sustained competitive advantage.” In M. Lawless and L. Gomez-Mejia (eds.), Managing
the high technology firm (pp. 33–48). Greenwich, CT: JAI Press, on teamwork in top
management teams; Barney, J. B. (1986). “Organizational culture: Can it be a source of
sustained competitive advantage?” Academy of Management Review, 11, pp. 656–665, on
organizational culture; Henderson, R. M., and I. Cockburn. (1994). “Measuring
competence? Exploring firm effects in pharmaceutical research.” Strategic Management
Journal, 15, pp. 63–84, on relationships among employees; and Dyer, J. H., and H. Singh.
(1998). “The relational view: Cooperative strategy and sources of interorganizational
competitive advantage.” Academy of Management Review, 23(4), pp. 660–679, on
relationships with suppliers and customers.
22       For a discussion of knowledge as a source of competitive advantage in the popular
business press, see Stewart, T. (1995). “Getting real about brain power.” Fortune,
November 27, pp. 201+; Stewart, T. (1995). “Mapping corporate knowledge.” Fortune,
October 30, pp.    209 + .   For the academic version of this same issue, see Simonin, B. L.
(1999). “Ambiguity and the process of knowledge transfer in strategic alliances.” Strategic
Management Journal, 20(7), pp. 595–623; Spender, J. C. (1996). “Making knowledge the
basis of a dynamic theory of the firm.” Strategic Management Journal, 17 (Winter special
issue), pp. 109–122; Hatfield, D. D., J. P. Liebeskind, and T. C. Opler. (1996). “The effects of
corporate restructuring on aggregate industry specialization.” Strategic Management
Journal, 17, pp. 55–72; and Grant, R. M. (1996). “Toward a knowledge-based theory of the
firm.” Strategic Management Journal, 17 (Winter special issue), pp. 109–122.
23    Porras, J., and P. O. Berg. (1978). “The impact of organizational development.”
Academy of Management Review, 3, pp. 249–266, have done one of the few empirical
studies on whether systematic efforts to change socially complex resources are effective.
They found that such efforts are usually not effective. Although this study is getting older, it
is unlikely that current change methods will be any more effective than the methods
examined by these authors.
24    See Hambrick, D. (1987). “Top management teams: Key to strategic success.”
California Management Review, 30, pp. 88–108, on top management teams; Barney, J. B.
(1986). “Organizational culture: Can it be a source of sustained competitive advantage?”
Academy of Management Review, 11, pp. 656–665, on culture; Porter, M. E. (1980).
Competitive strategy. New York: Free Press; and Klein, B., and K. Leffler. (1981). “The role
of market forces in assuring contractual performance.” Journal of Political Economy, 89, pp.
615–641, on relations with customers.
25    See Harris, L. C., and E. Ogbonna. (1999). “Developing a market oriented culture: A
critical evaluation.” Journal of Management Studies, 36(2), pp. 177–196.
26    Lieberman, M. B. (1987). “The learning curve, diffusion, and competitive strategy.”
Strategic Management Journal, 8, pp. 441–452, has a very good analysis of the cost of
imitation in the chemical industry. See also Lieberman, M. B., and D. B. Montgomery.
(1988). “First-mover advantages.” Strategic Management Journal, 9, pp. 41–58.
27    Rumelt, R. P. (1984). “Toward a strategic theory of the firm.” In R. Lamb (ed.),
Competitive strategic management (pp. 556–570). Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall,
among others, cites patents as a source of costly imitation.
28    Significant debate surrounds the patentability of different kinds of products. For
example, although typefaces are not patentable (and cannot be copyrighted), the process
for displaying typefaces may be. See Thurm, S. (1998). “Copy this typeface? Court ruling
counsels caution.” The Wall Street Journal, July 15, pp. B1+.
29    J. P. Womack, D. I. Jones, and D. Roos (1990). The machine that changed the world.
New York: Rawson; M. Huselid (1995). “The impact of human resource management
practices on turnover, productivity, and corporate financial performance.” Academy of
Management Journal, 38, pp. 635–672; J. B. Barney and P. Wright (1998). “On becoming a
strategic partner.” Human Resource Management, 37, pp. 31–46.
30    For an insightful discussion of these complementary resources, see Amit, R., and P.
J. H. Schoemaker. (1993). “Strategic assets and organizational rent.” Strategic
Management Journal, 14(1), pp. 33–45.
31    See H. Tabuchi (2012) How the tech parade passed Sony by. April 15, 2012. New
York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2012/04/15/technology/how-sony-fell-
behindinthetechparade. Accessed January 27, 2014.
32    (2004). “Casio.” Marketing, May 6, p. 95 Weisul, K. (2003). “When time is money—
and art.” BusinessWeek, July 21, p. 86.
33    That said, there have been some “cracks” in Southwest’s capabilities armor lately.
For example, in 2016, negotiation between Southwest and its unions became very heated.
Union officials called for the resignations of Southwest’s CEO. Southwest’s board declined
to do so. (Colmetsch, C. “Southwest’s Board Tells Union CEO Not Going Anywhere,”
www.bloomburg.com, August 6, 2016). Whether this is an early indicator that Southwest’s
core people management strengths are being lost is not yet known. However, Southwest’s
stumbling would give other US airlines some hope.
34    This aspect of the competitive dynamics in an industry is discussed in Smith, K. G.,
C. M. Grimm, and M. J. Gannon. (1992). Dynamics of competitive strategy. Newberry Park,
CA: Sage.
35    Schlender, B. R. (1992). “How Sony keeps the magic going.” Fortune, February 24,
pp. 75–84.
36    Personal communication.
37    See, for example, Peters, T., and R. Waterman. (1982). In search of excellence. New
York: Harper Collins; Collins, J., and J. Porras. (1994). Built to last. New York: Harper
Business; Collins, J. (2001). Good to great. New York: Harper Collins; and Bennis, W. G.,
and R. Townsend. (2006). Reinventing leadership. New York: Harper Collins.
Part 1 Cases
Case 1–1: Can SodaStream Disrupt the
Carbonated Soft Drink Market?

      “Transportation for carbonated drinks in the world
      utilizes 100 million barrels of oil every year. That is 20
      times the BP disaster that hit the Gulf of Mexico.”


      “I think it is criminal that the industry, led by two big
      companies, will do anything to protect their antiquated
      business model. They are generating 35 million bottles
      and cans every single day in the U.K. alone. World-
      wide it is one billion bottles and cans, most of which
      just go to trash, landfill, the oceans or parks. It’s
      insane.”
  —Daniel Birnbaum, CEO of SodaStream International, in a November 2012 interview with The Wall Street

                                                                                             Journal.1
Anna Claire Butler wet her brush, slicked her
hair back, and checked her reflection in the
mirror. “My first day on Wall Street!” she thought.
Five minutes later, she walked briskly down
Broadway Avenue to the 86th Street subway
station to catch the downtown 1-2-3 train. After a
hot and cramped 20-minute subway ride, Anna
Claire stepped into the lobby of the bank that
housed the midtown Manhattan offices of Keller
& Assoc., her new employer.

Later that day, Anna Claire pushed through the
crowd waiting for a table to join her best friend,
Beth. After the two friends exchanged hellos,
Beth said, “What’s wrong with you? You look like
you were hit by a bus.”

“My feet are killing me. I’ve got a run in my
brand-new stockings, and I’m starving. Worse
yet, I have to figure out the soda market and do
a presentation to my boss in two days.”

“What do you mean, figure out the soda market?
You just started. What do you know about it?”
asked Beth.
“All I know is that my favorite soda is Diet Coke.
Unfortunately, that’s not gonna to be enough—
not nearly enough—to keep old J. B. Parker
happy,” said Anna Claire.

“Who’s J. B. Parker?” asked Beth.

“Only the man who controls my destiny—the
bossman. He’s looking into doing a deal in the
carbonated soft drink market. I don’t know the
details, but I am supposed to do all his legwork
in the next 48 hours. He told me to ‘show him
the money.’ By that he meant explain who
makes all the money in the industry and how
they do it.”

“Hmm, that is interesting, very interesting,”
mused Beth. “You know, SodaStream’s stock
has been on a roller coaster ride in the past
couple of weeks.”

“What are you talking about?” asked Anna
Claire.

“I’m talking about SodaStream being in play.”
“Huh?”

“An Israeli financial newspaper printed a story
about Pepsi being in talks to acquire
SodaStream in early June.2 The stock popped
almost 8 percent in pre-market trading the day
the story came out, but that was before Pepsi
nixed the story the same afternoon.3 I bet that’s
the deal your boss is working on,” Beth said.

“Isn’t that the end of it?” Anna Claire asked.

“Apparently not. Pepsi said it wasn’t making any
large acquisitions, but investors still bid up
SodaStream stock in the hopes that Coca-Cola
was interested. The stock hit a high of about 78
bucks on takeover rumors, but has now plunged
to about $60—well under where it was before
the Pepsi rumor hit the press. It didn’t help the
stock that the New York Post ran a story last
week that said SodaStream had been shopping
itself quietly for the past three months4—but no
one was interested in buying. I bet your boss is
trying to figure out if he should buy the stock on
the pullback in the price.”
The next morning, Anna Claire arrived at the
office at 6:00 and got to work downloading the
annual reports for Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, Dr.
Pepper Snapple Group, and SodaStream.
“Yikes, this is going to be more complicated than
I thought. I bet I don’t get a wink of sleep for the
next two days,” Anna Claire thought ruefully. As
Anna Claire clicked on the file containing
SodaStream’s 10K, her mind was full of
questions. “Is SodaStream even in the same
market as Coke and Pepsi? Why would
investors think Coke or Pepsi might want to buy
the company? Is SodaStream a disruptive
innovator of the carbonated soft drink market?
What do the bottlers have to do with Coke and
Pepsi? I guess I’d better figure out what
SodaStream does first and then think about the
competition.”
SodaStream International and the
SodaStream System
SodaStream manufactures home soda-maker maker machines,
flavor concentrates, and gas cylinders. Founded in 1903 as a
subsidiary of W&A Gibley gin distillers, the original SodaStream
machines were marketed to British upper-class customers. The
machine, dubbed, “apparatus for aerating liquids” by inventor Guy
Gibley, allowed users to convert ordinary tap water into carbonated
water by injecting compressed carbon dioxide gas (CO2) into a
container of water. Marketed to the upper class, the first SodaStream
machine was installed at Buckingham Palace.5 The company
introduced flavored syrups in the 1920s along with commercial
machines, followed by the introduction of a home carbonation
machine in the 1950s.6 The modern SodaStream system is pictured
below. Consumers purchased a SodaStream machine along with a
specially designed, durable plastic bottle, flavor concentrate, and a
CO2 gas cylinder. After filling the bottle with tap water, the user
screwed the bottle into the SodaStream machine and depressed a
button to add carbonation. The machine injected CO2 into the water
each time the user pushed the button. Once the user had put in the
desired amount of carbonation, he added either liquid flavor
concentrate to the bottle to his taste or dumped in a pre-measured
“cap” of flavor similar to the pre-measured Keurig coffee “caps”
made by Green Mountain Coffee Roasters.
U.S. Carbonated Soft Drink
Market
According to Beverage Digest, the top 10 carbonated soft drink
(CSD) brands held just over 66 percent of the estimated $74 billion
market in 2011. All of the top 10 brands belonged to Coca-Cola,
PepsiCo, and Dr. Pepper Snapple Group. Table 1 below shows
the distribution of market shares by company in the United States in
2011 as well as a listing of their brands and place on the top 10 CSD
brand list.


Table 1 2011 U.S. Carbonated Soft Drink (CSD) Company Market
Shares and Brands
Source: Business Insider, Dr Pepper Snapple Group 2011 10K, Stastica, Wall Street Journal, Beverage-Digest
The carbonated soft drink market was famous for its market share
battles between Coca-Cola and PepsiCo. Notably, PepsiCo
aggressively targeted Coke’s position with the Pepsi Challenge
marketing campaign that ran from 1975 to 1978. The campaign
featured blind taste tests by ordinary consumers all over the United
States. To their surprise, more than 50 percent of consumers
preferred the taste of Pepsi in head-to-head blind taste tests. The
innovative campaign allowed Pepsi to build upon market share gains
in the early 1970s and challenge Coke’s dominant position in the
United States for the first time. After 15 consecutive years of market
share losses to Pepsi in the United States, Coca-Cola responded
with the unsuccessful launch of “New Coke” in 1985. A firestorm of
consumer protests resulted in the introduction of the “Coke Classic”
line in its signature hourglass plastic bottle a few months later.
Interestingly, “New Coke” used a high-fructose corn syrup-
sweetened version of the Diet Coke formula (introduced in 1982).

Capitalizing on the strength of the Coke consumer’s bond with the
brand that became apparent after the launch of “New Coke,” Coca-
Cola directed much of its efforts from the mid-1980s to 2012 to
positioning its flagship brand as a “lifestyle” brand. PepsiCo famously
launched a series of marketing campaigns over about a 40-year
span featuring popular artists such as Michael Jackson, Ray
Charles, Britney Spears, Christina Aguilera, Mariah Carey, Beyoncé,
and Nicki Minaj. Although advertising expenditures remained high,
industry observers in 2010 began to question Pepsi’s determination
to compete in the category, as Pepsi appeared to “concede” the
category to Coke. Diet Coke overtook Pepsi for the first time to
become the #2 brand in the CSD industry. Under CEO Indra Nooyi,
Pepsi seemed focused on its highly profitable Frito-Lay snack
business rather than on the U.S. carbonated soft drink market.


Pepsi responded aggressively to its critics with the 2012 launch of
Pepsi Next, a mid-calorie cola. The new product was sweetened with
high-fructose corn syrup and three artificial sweeteners. Pepsi’s
advertising expenditures jumped more than 44 percent (see Table
2 ). Moreover, the company stated publicly that it was pouring its
research efforts into developing new, natural sweeteners in order to
develop healthier alternatives to artificial sweeteners and support its
planned new product launches in the future.

Table 2 U.S. Carbonated Soft Drink Advertising Effectiveness ($
in millions)
Source: Advertising Age: Top 100 Advertisers, author’s calculations.




Dr Pepper Snapple Group (DPS) stayed on the sidelines of the so-
called “cola wars” by staking a claim to the “flavor” segment of the
CSD market. The company held two positions on the top 10 brands
list in 2011. Its flagship brand, Dr Pepper, held the #5 position in the
industry. Diet Dr Pepper was #9 on the list of the largest CSD
brands. In 2011, Dr Pepper Snapple group launched a line of
reduced-calorie products in 23 flavors accompanied by the slogan
“It’s Not for Women.” Products such as Dr Pepper 10 and A&W 10
were targeted to young men who are “turned off” by zero-calorie
sodas.
Clearly, ad spending signaled that competition was heating up
between the major CSD makers in the United States. Industry
observers that called the end of the “cola wars” in 2011 may have
celebrated Coke’s victory prematurely.
Retail Distribution
Sales of carbonated soft drinks to consumers went through two
major distribution channels: retail stores and fountain accounts.
Sales to retailers accounted for more than 75 percent of total CSD
sales in the United States, while fountain drinks generated about 25
percent of industry sales. The largest portion of retail store sales was
through supermarkets and discounters. The $1.2 trillion supermarket
and discounter industry accounted for 50 percent of all carbonated
soft drink sales in the United States in 2011. The top five retailers in
the segment—Wal-Mart, Kroger, Target, Costco, and Safeway—
generated about 49 percent of all retail sales in the channel. Wal-
Mart alone accounted for about 27 percent of retail sales in the
supermarket and discounter industry. While figures were not
available for individual retailer sales of carbonated soft drinks,
PepsiCo stated that Wal-Mart (including Sam’s Club) accounted for
11 percent of its sales worldwide in 2011 and 17 percent of its U.S.
sales. Although Costco accounted for only about 6 percent of all
retail sales in the channel, the company dealt a blow to Coca-Cola in
2012 by switching all of its food courts to Pepsi products.
Convenience stores, gas stations, vending machines, and other
retailers made up the remainder of CSD industry sales to retail
stores.8


Sales to restaurants, movie theaters, stadiums, and other fountain
drink outlets generated about 25 percent of CSD industry sales.
Coca-Cola held an estimated 70 percent of the fountain drink market
—dwarfing PepsiCo’s estimated 19 percent share and Dr. Pepper’s
11 percent share in the channel. McDonald’s exclusively sold Coca-
Cola products and accounted for half of all food sales in fast-food
burger joints in 2011 and so was undoubtedly one of Coca-Cola
U.S.’s most important customers. With the estimated 75 percent
retail margins on fountain drink sales, McDonald’s relationship with
Coca-Cola has proven to be a profitable one for the fast-food giant.
Manufacturing and Distribution of
Carbonated Soft Drinks
Originally sold by druggists as a healthful tonic, the bubbly potion
has been enjoyed by Americans since the early 1800s. The
carbonated soft drink itself was a relatively simple concoction
consisting of flavoring concentrate, carbonated water, and
sweetener. Companies like Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, and Dr Pepper
Snapple Group—the concentrate producers—manufactured flavoring
concentrate and sold it to licensed bottlers. Bottlers converted
concentrate into carbonated beverages by adding carbonated water
and packaging the drinks in bottles and cans. The concentrate
producers (CPs) added sweeteners such as sucralose or Stevia
before selling diet concentrate to the bottlers, while the bottlers
added high-fructose corn syrup or cane sugar to full calorie
beverages.


For much of the past 25 years, the concentrate producers did not
purchase bottles, cans, sugar, or high-fructose corn syrup, as they
did not manufacture finished carbonated soda products. They did
negotiate supply agreements for their fragmented “bottling systems”
in order to increase the buying power of their bottlers systemwide.
The concentrate producers created marketing campaigns and
promotions for their brands and shared in the considerable
marketing costs for their brands with the bottlers. The bottlers were
responsible for purchasing raw materials and packaging,
manufacturing the finished beverages, distribution and warehousing,
and customer service. They paid for promotions and bore some
marketing costs, set local prices of the finished beverages, and sold
directly to retail stores. Coca-Cola and Pepsi bottlers were prohibited
by contractual agreements from making and selling “imitative”
products that competed directly with Coca-Cola and PepsiCo
beverage brands. For example, a Coca-Cola bottler could not sell
Pepsi or Diet Pepsi. In return, the CPs granted the bottlers exclusive
distribution rights in geographic areas.


While the independent bottling system was firmly in place in
international markets in 2013, both PepsiCo and Coca-Cola had
purchased most of their respective bottling systems in the United
States in 2010-2011. PepsiCo purchased its two largest bottlers in
North America (Pepsi Bottling Group and PepsiAmericas) for a
combined value of $7.8 billion in early 2010. The purchase gave
Pepsi control of 80 percent of its distributors in North America. Coca-
Cola purchased the North American bottling operations of its largest
bottler, Coca-Cola Enterprises, in a deal valued at about $12.3 billion
in October 2010. Coca-Cola owned 90 percent of its North American
bottling system after the CCE deal closed.


The three acquisitions marked a reversal in strategy for both Coca-
Cola and PepsiCo. Coca-Cola spun off the bottlers it owned in 1987
as so-called “anchor bottlers.” Spinning off the bottlers allowed Coke
to push large amounts of capital off of its balance sheet and focus on
concentrate production. Coca-Cola Enterprises (CCE) had an
operating margin of 7.6 percent and a return on average assets of 5
percent in 2009 excluding restructuring charges. Coca-Cola’s
operating margin was 26.6 percent, and return on average assets
was 15.3 percent. Pepsi spun off its bottlers in 1999. Pepsi Bottling
Group had an operating margin of 7.9 percent and a return on
average assets of 4.6 percent in 2009. PepsiCo’s operating margin
on the North American beverage business was 21.7 percent in 2009.


Coca-Cola and PepsiCo expected the purchase of the majority of
their bottling systems in North America to allow both companies to
realize significant cost savings and better address the challenges of
shifting consumer preferences in the United States. Increasing
demand for alternative beverages had strained both companies’
bottling systems as bottlers struggled to make investments in
equipment and logistics systems that would facilitate a shift away
from a manufacturing and inventory management process that was
designed for large volume sales of a relatively small number of
stock-keeping units. Alternative beverages such as energy drinks
and ready-to-drink teas used smaller production runs and had much
more complicated and extensive product lines that featured many
flavors and sizes of beverages than CSD. These investments were
not paying off for the bottlers but were desperately needed by both
Coke and Pepsi to remain competitive in the United States.

Investors speculated that both companies would eventually spin off
or re-franchise the captive bottlers in the future or separate
manufacturing and distribution. Indeed, Coca-Cola announced in
April 2013 it had reached an agreement with its major independent
bottlers to expand their distribution territories, but not to increase
their production capacities. Muhar Kent, chairman and CEO of Coca-
Cola, commented, “A strong franchise system had always been the
competitive advantage of the Coca-Cola business globally, and
today we are accelerating the transformation of our U.S. system in
ways that will establish a clear path to achieve our 2020 vision.”9 A
few days later, Kent told investors, “In the coming months, we will be
collaborating with five of our bottling partners to implement a plan
which will include the granting of exclusive territory rights and the
sale of distribution assets with cold drink equipment. In the near
term, production assets will remain with Coca Cola Refreshments,
which will facilitate future implementation of a national product
supply system.”10 It appeared that Coca-Cola had begun to
transform its traditional manufacturing and distribution model in the
United States.
Waning Popularity of Carbonated
Soft Drinks
At the peak of its reign as the U.S. consumer’s favorite drink in the
late 1990s, Americans drank nearly 55 gallons of CSD per year on
average, and CSD were 30 percent of all liquid beverage
consumption. Beer was the next largest drinks category but only
accounted for 12 percent of liquid beverage consumption in the
United States.11 During the 1990s, demand grew at about 3 percent
per year on average. Demand for CSD as measured by case volume
began to decline in 2005 and fell for seven consecutive years.
Nevertheless, Americans still consumed a whopping 42.4 gallons12
of CSD per capita and the beverage category accounted for about
25 percent of daily beverage consumption. Changes in consumer
preferences fueled by health concerns were the largest contributor to
the decline in CSD consumption.


Increasingly, U.S. consumers turned to bottled water, energy drinks,
ready-to-drink teas, coffee beverages, sports drinks, and juice drinks
to quench their thirst. Rising health concerns, especially regarding
obesity, and interest in “natural” and “green” products helped fuel
demand for alternatives to CSD in the 2000s. Campaigns against
CSDs in schools and the 2013 proposed ban on fountain drink
serving sizes of more than 16 ounces for full-calorie CSD in New
York City highlighted the changes in public opinion about the health
effects of CSD consumption. New York Supreme Court Judge Milton
Tingling overturned the ban on grounds that the New York Board of
Health was established to protect citizens against diseases, not to
regulate the city’s food supply except when the city faced an
imminent threat from disease.13 Nevertheless, the proposed ban
worried beverage makers, as it was an indication the movement to
reduce the public’s consumption of sugary drinks continued to gain
momentum in the United States. Moreover, NYC’s attempt to limit
CSD consumption was a chilling reminder of the anti-cigarette
movement that resulted in the smoking ban in NYC restaurants and
bars in 2003.

Bottled water was the largest non-alcoholic alternative drink category
to CSD in the U.S. market. Of the estimated 180 gallons of
beverages Americans consumed on average per year, bottled water
accounted for 29 gallons per person in 2011—up from 18 gallons per
capita in 2001. Bottled water sales generated about $11 billion in
revenues in 2011, according to a report by Beverage Marketing.14
Continuing its meteoric rise in popularity, energy drink sales leaped
more than 14 percent in 2011 to about $8.9 billion in retail sales.
Energy drink leader Monster Inc.’s sales grew more than 16 percent
and the company nabbed more than 36 percent of all energy drink
sales in 2011. Sports drink sales, pushed up by new low-calorie and
no-calorie product introductions, increased almost 9 percent to about
$7 billion in 2011. Other alternatives to CSD such as ready-to-drink
coffee also experienced strong sales growth in 2011.
Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, and Dr Pepper Snapple Group all acquired
significant assets in the non-carbonated soft drink market to satisfy
consumer demands for alternative beverages. Investors expected all
three companies to continue to explore acquisitions, strategic
alliances such as licensing, and homegrown forays into new
beverage categories. Coca-Cola was #1 in the non-carbonated soft
drink market with a 34 percent share. PepsiCo came in second with
a 26 percent share, followed by Dr Pepper Snapple Group with an
11 percent share of the non-carbonated soft drink segment in 2012.


Coca-Cola’s U.S. brand portfolio included the #2 sports drink brand
(Powerade) and #2 bottled water brand (Dasani). The company
added Vitamin Water to its line up through the $4.2 billion acquisition
of Glaceau—putting Coke in the lead in the fortified water segment.
Other key brands included Minute Maid, Fuze, and Glaceau
SmartWater. Although it trailed Coca-Cola, PepsiCo had a strong
position in non-CSD categories thanks in large part to its $13.4
billion purchase of Quaker Oats in 2001. Quaker’s Gatorade brand
gave Pepsi an 80 percent share of the fast-growing U.S. sports drink
market. While Gatorade’s market share had slipped to about 73
percent in 2011, the brand still held a commanding lead in the
category.15 At $3.3 billion in annual sales as of October 2012,
Gatorade was one of PepsiCo’s most important brands.16 The
company also held the lead in the U.S. bottled water segment with
its Aquafina brand. Other key PepsiCo brands included Tropicana,
SoBe, Propel, Amp Energy, and licensed brands Lipton Brisk and
Starbucks.
Dr Pepper Snapple Group was a distant #3 in the non-carbonated
soft drink market but was still a strong competitor in several
categories. The company’s non-carbonated brands included #1
ready-to-drink tea brand Snapple, along with Hawaiian Punch,
Clamato, DejaBlue, Mott’s, and Nantucket Nectars.

In addition to consumer concerns over health, demand for CSD
proved to be very price elastic. In fact, 160 research studies on the
elasticity of demand for food conducted between 1938 and 2007
showed that a 10 percent increase in soft drink prices results in an
average [&|minus|8&] percent drop in demand, with an even larger
drop for carbonated soft drinks of [&|minus|9&] percent on average
for each 10 percent increase in price.17 CSD manufacturers
increased retail prices in 2011 and 2012 to offset higher prices for
sweeteners, especially high-fructose corn syrup. Price hikes
appeared to be a contributing factor to the decline in consumption of
CSD in both years.
SodaStream Business Model
The home drinks system was quite popular in the United Kingdom in
the 1970s and 1980s but languished in the 1990s and early 2000s
as the company suffered through several changes in ownership.
Close to bankruptcy, the firm received a cash infusion from
Fortissimo Capital and new management in 2007. Daniel Birnbaum,
installed as SodaStream’s CEO in 2007, was fresh off of a three-year
stint as Nike Israel’s general manager and also had established
Pillsbury’s business in Israel during the late 1990s. Under Birnbaum,
the company modified its customer value proposition while retaining
its tried-and-true profit model. In order to build the brand, Birnbaum
employed three value drivers that took advantage of major societal
trends: rising consumer interest in so-called “green” products;
increasing consumer concerns over health and wellness, especially
obesity; and the apparent change in the zeitgeist away from
conspicuous consumption and toward frugality.

As a result, the management team began to position the
SodaStream system as an environmentally sound and healthy
alternative to prepared carbonated soft drinks. According to
SodaStream’s corporate Web site, the company seeks to,
“revolutionize the beverage industry by reducing plastic bottle waste
and being an environmentally friendly product . . . SodaStream’s
vision is to create a world free from bottles. At SodaStream, we
believe it is time to rethink how you make your soda and to
understand the positive environmental impact when making soda at
home. We are committed to continuously improving as an earth
friendly brand and offering eco-friendly products that have a positive
impact on our environment.” Indeed, the company’s Web site
prominently features a plastic bottle “counter” at the top of the page
that displays management’s estimates of the number of plastic
bottles that the company’s customers “have kept out of landfills” by
using the SodaStream refillable system rather than purchasing
prepackaged soft drinks. As of July 2013, the count stood at roughly
3.2 billion bottles.

Mindful of consumer concerns over obesity and wellness as well as
the broad shift in consumer tastes away from colas to “flavors” over
the past few years, SodaStream emphasized that its 100 flavors of
syrup allow the consumer to control the amount of concentrate per
serving and were available in diet or sugar-free versions. The
company’s product line included syrups for traditional carbonated
soft drinks, energy drinks, fruit drinks, iced teas, and flavored waters.


Along with the boost to its customer value proposition afforded by a
major improvement in both machine and concentrate quality,
SodaStream stressed consumer cost savings compared to canned
or bottled soft drinks. Excluding the upfront costs for the SodaStream
machine, SodaStream said consumers spent only $0.25 for 12
ounces of SodaStream soda (the size of a can of Coke or Pepsi) and
$0.25 per liter of sparkling water made with a SodaStream machine.
The machine ranged in price from $79 for the basic model to $199
for the company’s automated model in the United States. Flavorings
cost $4.99, $6.99, and $9.99 per bottle. Each bottle of flavoring
made between 25 and 33 eight-ounce servings of soda. A refill CO2
canister (with a returned canister) cost $15 with each canister
making about 60 liters of soda.


SodaStream planned to profit from its customer value proposition by
sticking with its proven profit model. Like the famous Gillette “blade
and razor” model, SodaStream’s profit model relied upon follow-up
sales of flavor concentrates and gas cylinder refills. SodaStream
starter kits accounted for about 43 percent of sales, while
consumables (flavor syrups, bottles, and CO2 refills) generated 57
percent of revenues in 2012. SodaStream machines were profitable
but generated gross margins of only an estimated 30 to 32 percent—
well below the corporate average gross margin of 54 percent in
2012. In contrast, the consumables business had gross margins of
an estimated 72 percent. While the CO2 refill business produced
significantly smaller revenues than sales of flavors and bottles, the
refill canisters had astonishingly high gross margins of an estimated
85 to 90 percent.18 The relatively small plastic bottle segment had
the next best gross margins—an estimated 60 to 62 percent. The
flavor concentrate business also was a very profitable one with gross
margins of an estimated 58 percent.


The company’s profit model had several major parts. First, the
company was vertically integrated into the manufacturing of gas
cylinders, SodaStream machines, and flavor concentrates. The
company counted on economies of scale in its Israeli gas cylinder
production facility to keep margins high. Its patented fittings on gas
cylinders and the SodaStream machines made it difficult for potential
competitors to copy this critical element of the SodaStream system.
Moreover, regulations on handling and storing hazardous materials
—the CO2 canisters were pressurized—made retailers leery of
selling competing cylinders. Second, SodaStream intended to
increase both its geographic reach and household penetration of
SodaStream machines, which would allow the firm to benefit from
the sale of higher-margin consumables to each household with a
SodaStream machine in the future. Over time, management
expected the company’s already high profit margins to increase as
its product mix shifted from low-margin machines to high-margin CO2
refills and flavor concentrates. As part of its move to increase
household penetration and encourage repeat purchases of
consumables, SodaStream aggressively pursued licensing
partnerships with established beverage brands such as Country
Time and Crystal Light. The company also formed a relationship with
Samsung to sell a line of refrigerators with built-in SodaStream
machines. The refrigerator retailed for $3,900 in 2013. Third,
SodaStream pursued relationships with competing home soda
machine manufacturers in order to try to establish the SodaStream
gas cylinder as the industry standard. As of summer 2013,
SodaStream had no significant competitors in the U.S. market.
Financial Results
The company sold its products in 60,000 stores and 45 countries in
2012. A relative newcomer to the U.S. market, SodaStream’s U.S.
sales were conducted through 15,000 stores, including Williams-
Sonoma, Best Buy, Wal-Mart, and Target. As Table 3 shows, the
company’s 2012 revenues in the Americas were about $158 million
—up from about $41 million in 2010. The majority of the company’s
revenues in the Americas were generated by sales in the U.S.
market. Overall revenues had more than doubled from $208 million
to $436 million in two years. At the same time, operating profits more
than tripled and net income in 2012 skyrocketed to nearly three and
a half times net income in 2010. With $62 million in cash and no
debt, SodaStream’s balance sheet was a strong one. Yet, the
company was dwarfed by its larger CSD competitors (see Appendix
1).
SodaStream’s Outlook
Despite the company’s exceptional financial results, investors
worried that the SodaStream system would lose its appeal to
consumers as it had in previous decades. With no buyout in sight,
the company had to continue to perform on its own to keep the stock
market happy. SodaStream’s own research showed that an
estimated 5 million consumers worldwide used a SodaStream
machine at least once every two weeks. The company sold more
than 10 million machines from 2008 to 2012. Still, investors had
shown they were willing to bet on companies with far less impressive
conversion rates than SodaStream such as Pandora. SodaStream
bulls argued that the company was a “disruptive innovator” that
would make canned and bottled soft drinks obsolete. The
SodaStream system did not require a capital-intensive bottling
system because consumers made the drinks at home with their own
CO2 canisters. SodaStream drinks were inexpensive and relatively
healthy. Consumers could customize the product by altering the
amount of carbonation and flavor concentrate. The product was
environmentally friendly, unlike every other prepackaged beverage
on the market. The company’s more than 100 soda flavors gave
consumers more variety than they could get from the large CSD
brands. In addition, the company’s money-back satisfaction
guarantee was an important signal of quality assurance to the
consumer. SodaStream’s total marketing expenditures worldwide
were substantial at $153 million in 2012.
The company indicated brand building was a top priority by
purchasing ad time from the U.S.’s most expensive ad venue—the
Super Bowl. However, SodaStream’s ad featuring exploding Coke-
like and Pepsi-like bottles was banned by CBS from the Super Bowl
in the United States. The ad immediately “went viral” on YouTube,
according to NewsMax. SodaStream arguably garnered more
consumer attention due to the CBS ban and a similar one in the
United Kingdom by television industry trade group Clearcast than it
would have gotten through the ad.

Still, the system did not yet operate as smoothly as it should
because U.S. retailers were unfamiliar with the gas cylinder
exchange program and frequently did not know how to give
consumers a newly filled but used cylinder for $15 rather than selling
them a new cylinder for $25. Information on cylinder exchange often
was missing from store shelves, and many flavors frequently were
out of stock.


Moreover, SodaStream bears pointed to the lack of significant
barriers to entry for a potential SodaStream competitor—should the
market become large enough to attract large consumer products
companies. A new gas cylinder factory might only cost $100 million
to build compared to billions to replicate the Coca-Cola or Pepsi
bottling system in the United States alone. SodaStream’s product
might be a convenient alternative to prepackaged drinks at home,
but U.S. consumers were accustomed to being able to purchase a
Coke or Pepsi nearly anywhere. The huge popularity of the Coca-
Cola “Freestyle” drink-dispensing machine with its 125 different
flavor options underlined the company’s efforts to respond to
consumer demands for flavor variety suggested that SodaStream’s
flavor variety might have some traction with customers.


As Anna Claire pondered all she had learned about the CSD industry
and SodaStream in the past few days, she thought about a quote
from Birnbaum, SodaStream’s CEO, in response to the CBS Super
Bowl ad ban; “Our ad confronts the beverage industry and its
arguably outdated business model.” He went on to say, “One day we
will look back on plastic soda bottles the way we now view
cigarettes.”19


“Perhaps Birnbaum was right,” Anna Claire thought.
End Notes
1    Zekaria, S. (2012). “SodaStream fizzes up global market for carbonated and flavored
drinks.” The Wall Street Journal, November 13.
2    Reuters Tel Aviv. (2013). “PepsiCo in talks to buy SodaStream for $2 billion.” June 6,
www.reuters.com/article/2013/06/06/sodastream-pepsi-idUSL5N0EI0NI20130606.
3    Reuters Tel Aviv. (2013). “PepsiCo denies in talks to buy SodaStream.” June 6,
www.reuters.com/article/2013/06/06/us-sodastream-pepsi-idUSBRE9550AJ20130606.
4    Kosman, J. (2013). “SodaStream’s sale hopes going pffffffft.” New York Post, July 9,
www.nypost.com/p/news/business/
sodastream_sale_hopes_going_pffffffft_jFn51VKX0OTiRVKNipLn3J.
5    Stevens, J. (2012). “Remember SodaStream? Now you can just twist ‘n sparkle with a
clever bottle that even makes your own champagne.” Mail OnLine, May 11,
www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-2142925/Remember-SodaStream-Now-just-Twist-n-
Sparkle-clever-bottle-makes-Champagne.html.
6    en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sodastream, July 17, 2013.
7    “SodaStream international presentation: Company overview.” July 17, 2013,
sodastream.investorroom.com/sodastreamoverview.
8    “Breaking down the chain: A guide to the soft drink industry.” National Policy and Legal
Analysis Network to Prevent Childhood Obesity. Public Health Law and Policy.
changelabsolutions.org/publications/breaking-down-chain.
9    (2013). “The Coca-Cola Company commences implementation of 21st Century
Beverage Partnership Model in the United States.” Coca-Cola press release, April 16,
www.coca-colacompany/press-center/press-releases.
10    (2013). “The Coca-Cola Company discusses 1Q 2013 results—earnings call
transcript.” April 16, seekingalpha.com/article/1344791-the-coca-cola-company-s-ceo-
discusses-q1-2013-results-earnings-call-transcript?page=3.
11    Ibid. Page 5.
12    Esterl, M. (2013). “Fizzy drinks revenue goes from flat to sour.” The Wall Street
Journal, January 18.
13    Adams, B. (2013). “Judge overturns NYC’s soda ban.”TheBlaze.com, May 11,
www.theblaze.com/stories/2013/03/11/report-judge-overturns-nycs-soda-ban/.
14    (2012). “Reinvigorated bottled water bounces back from recessionary years, new
report from beverage marketing corporation shows. Press release, May.
15    Edwards, J. (2012). “In Gatorade war, Pepsi seems to have deliberately given up
market share to Coke.” Business Insider, February 1, www.businessinsider.com/why-
gatorades-10-point-loss-of-share-to-cokes-powerade-is-not-a-total-disaster-2012-2.
16    (2012). “Apple tops the list of the world’s most powerful brands.” Forbes, October 22,
www.forbes.com/sites/kurtbadenhausen/2012/10/02/apple-tops-list-of-the-worlds-
most-powerful-brands/#736a9c63cc9a.
17    Andreyava, T., M. W. Long, and K. D. Brownell. (2010). “The impact of food prices on
consumption: A systematic review of research on the price elasticity of demand for food.”
American Journal of Public Health, 100(2), pp. 216–222.
18    Author’s estimates.
19    Elsinger, D. (2013). “SodaStream ad: Banned by CBS from Super Bowl, video goes
viral.”NewsMax.com, February 4, www.newsmax.com/TheWire/sodastream-ad-super-
bowl-cbs/2013/02/04/id/488766.
Other References
1. (2013). “100 leading national advertisers 2013 edition.”
    Advertising Age, June 24.


2. (2012). “Special issue: U.S. beverage results for 2012.” Beverage-
    Digest, March 20.


Appendix 1 Selected 2012 Financials—Branded Carbonated
Soft Drink Companies ($ in Millions Except EPS and Beta)
Case 1–2: True Religion Jeans:
Flash in the Pants or Enduring
Brand?
Founded in 2002 by Jeff Lubell, True Religion
had become one of the largest premium denim
brands in the United States by 2012. Although
True Religion made its debut in upscale
department stores and trendy boutiques a
decade earlier, the company owned 86 full price
retail stores and 36 outlet stores in the United
States as well as 30 stores in international
markets by the end of 2012. The company’s
domestic retail store business accounted for
about 60% of revenues and 64% of operating
profit before unallocated corporate expenses in
2012. Just five years earlier, the U.S. retail store
segment generated only 17% of sales and 25%
of operating profit before unallocated corporate
expenses.

Jeff Lubell’s vision of the company had come
true—at least partly. The company had
transformed itself from a jeans designer into an
apparel retailer with it own brand à la Buckle
and Diesel. At the same time, True Religion had
managed to shift its product mix so that
sportswear accounted for almost 35% of sales in
its company-owned stores. Lubell felt these two
ingredients were critical to establishing True
Religion as a “lifestyle brand.” The ultimate in
product differentiation, many companies attempt
to create so-called “lifestyle” brands that
transcend product category and inspire deep
consumer loyalty. Lubell felt becoming a lifestyle
brand was the key to insulating True Religion
from the inevitable fluctuations in fashion trends.

Moreover, True Religion’s sales had grown at an
average annual rate of almost 22% from 2007-
2012. The company’s return on invested capital
was an impressive 27% and its return on
average assets was 12% in 2012. Despite these
factors, press articles and analyst reports on
True Religion described the company as, “the
struggling maker of premium denim.” 1 A New
York Post article entitled “Escape From Hell for
True Religion” described private equity firm,
TowerBrook, as the company’s “savior,” 2 when
the company announced it had been acquired
by TowerBrook in 2013. Other denim brands,
such as Jeff Rudes’ J Brand, appeared to be
usurping True Religion’s position as the “must
have” denim brand for young consumers.

What had gone wrong at True Religion? Was the
change in ownership the answer to the
company’s problems? Was premium denim
destined to go the way of Flash Dance
legwarmers and Crocs as fast fashion from the
likes of H&M became more mainstream? Private
equity investors had snapped up stakes in both
established and up-and-coming premium denim
brands in the past five years—leaving just one
publicly traded premium jeans maker, Joe’s
Jeans. Should investors stay away from the
industry?
A Brief Recap of the Recent
History of the U.S. Denim Market
Calvin Klein popularized the concept of premium jeans in the late
1970s. The designer burst onto the jeans scene with shockingly high
prices, a skin-tight fit, and a controversial advertising campaign
featuring a very young Brooke Shields. As Brooke Shields confided
to U.S. consumers that nothing came between her and her “Calvins,”
the $35 per pair jeans flew off store shelves. At the time, mainstream
Lee and Wrangler blue jeans retailed for about $12 per pair on
average. Suddenly, jeans were no longer functional wardrobe
staples. They were sexy fashion statements. The jeans craze
peaked in 1981 when retail sales jumped to a record $6B and 520
million pairs. 3 As designer jeans fell out of favor, and the prime 14-
24 year old jeans buying cohort aged, domestic annual jeans sales
slid to 416 million pairs by 1985.

Following a protracted decline in the 1980s, the market surpassed its
earlier peak and hit annual sales of 511 million pairs in 1995. Denim
jeans unit sales grew at a strong 7%-10% per year from 1990-1996.
Then in 1997, the denim market experienced a sharp slowdown in
growth that lasted until the end of 1999—rising just 3% per year on
average. For some industry players the slowdown meant disaster.
Levi Strauss saw its sales plunge over 13% in 1998, almost 14% in
1999, and nearly 10% in 2000. U.S. textile giants, Cone, Swift, and
Burlington cut prices and idled production lines—all victims of a
denim glut at retail caused by a shift in fashion trends.

The introduction of new stretch fabrics and wide-spread acceptance
of “casual Friday” and other office “dress down” days stimulated
demand for khakis, carpenter, and cargo pants and cut into denim
demand in the late 90s. Nevertheless, even as demand for basic 5-
pocket denim jeans suffered from the shift in consumer preferences
in casual wear, demand for women’s fashion jeans grew. The
primary reason for the resurgence in demand for fashion jeans was
the availability of denim jeans in exciting new washes and finishes.


“Distressed” and “dirty” denim hit retail shelves in Spring 2000. The
new distressed jeans tapped into consumers’ taste for vintage
denim. Distressed, dirty jeans were already “broken in,” wrinkled,
stained, and looked as if the owner had worn them for years. The
Italian jeans maker, Diesel, had pushed dirty denim for several
seasons before it gained approval from other designers. A few
designers like Kenneth Cole also experimented with the new stretch
denim, a cotton denim that incorporated 2% Lycra spandex to
improve wearing comfort. 4


Against that backdrop, Jerome Dahan and Michael Glasser
introduced their Seven For All Mankind premium denim line to a
consumer market hungry for fashion innovations. The new denim
label would fuel the hottest upscale denim market since the late
1970s, and eventually would spark product improvements at every
price point in the jeans spectrum. Aspiring, as well as established,
designers would introduce literally hundreds of denim labels in the
new decade as they answered the siren call of high growth and high
profit margins. Retailers eagerly snapped up new offerings as their
customers demanded the latest hot jeans. The premium denim
market, defined as jeans retailing for $100 or more, would jump from
a dollar market share of about 1% in 2000 to about 10% of retail
jeans sales in 2012.
US Premium Denim Industry
Many industry observers believed that the estimated $1.7 billion
(retail) premium denim market had begun to mature in 2006. Overall
U.S. denim jeans ownership peaked at 8.2 pairs of jeans per
consumer that year. The appeal of denim was strong, but average
jeans ownership had fallen to 6.7 pairs per consumer by the end of
2012. 5 According to a 2012 Cotton Inc. consumer survey, 75% of
women and 73% of men stated they, “loved or enjoyed wearing
denim.” Still, those figures were down 3 percentage points each from
the same survey in 2007. 6


With nearly seven pairs of jeans in the typical American woman’s
closet and the move away from fashion jeans to basics, it had
become increasingly difficult to persuade consumers to buy new
pairs of jeans. At the same time, the premium market had shown it
was not immune to economic downturns. After years of torrid sales
growth, the premium jeans industry experienced its first slowdown in
2007 with sales down about −5% Although the industry seemed to
defy economic weakness with sales up an estimated 17% in 2008,
premium denim revenues slumped an estimated −8% in 2009 and
fell about −10% in 2010. Industry sales jumped about 11% in 2011,
and rose an estimated 7%-8% in 2012 as the U.S. economy
improved. Nevertheless, the outlook for the market was cloudy.
Many investors were worried about the so-called aspirational
shopper. While the core luxury buyer had returned to high end
shopping as the recession ended, aspirational shoppers had largely
stayed away. At the same time, enormous improvements in bargain-
priced jeans’ fabric, fit, and styling encouraged consumers to “trade
down” from expensive brands to stalwarts like Levi’s, Lee, and Gap
jeans. Some analysts estimated that up to 70% of luxury brand sales
and 50% of the growth in the luxury market was derived from so-
called “aspirational” shoppers prior to the recession. 7 Aspirational
shoppers—middle class consumers with luxury tastes—had
household incomes between $75,000 and $150,000. Easy credit and
rising home prices fueled spending and made the aspirational
shopper the target of many brand marketing campaigns in the heady
days before the housing bubble burst and unemployment surged to
post-Great Depression highs.


Prior to the recession, many premium denim labels defined
themselves as “aspirational brands”—expensive, but not as pricey as
couture brands who charged thousands for each piece of clothing.
Numerous press articles declared the death of the aspirational
shopper and a new “bargain hunting is cool” zeitgeist that would
survive after the economy rebounded. A November 2012 consumer
survey by Accenture showed nearly 2/3 of American shoppers did
not intend to return to pre-recession spending patterns. 8


Investors also were concerned about fashion trends and prices.
Embroidered, embellished, and distressed jeans were all the rage
from 2002-2005. In those days of skyrocketing demand, premium
denim designers had many ways to differentiate their products and
cash in on current fashion trends. As the U.S. economy began to
slow, flashy fashion jeans fell out of favor with consumers whose
interest in “basics” increased as their incomes declined. On the plus
side, a good pair of dark jeans was considered a “must have” item
for women. Glamour magazine put the jeans at number 7 on its list
of “10 Wardrobe Items Every Women Should Own.” 9 On the
negative side, Topher Gaylord, then President of Seven For All
Mankind, commented in a 2009 interview with the New York Daily
News, “We really don’t believe consumers today understand the
value of premium denim.” 10 It was hard to differentiate a plain, dark
blue pair of expensive jeans from a less expensive basic jean. In an
interview with Reuters, industry analyst Eric Beder said, “Premium
denim slows down when the trend goes basic. How do you
recognize its premium? How much differentiation is there in that pair
of $189 jeans compared to a $79 pair when they are just dark and
straight?” 11


Skinny jeans had played well with consumers over the past five
years, but they were as difficult to differentiate as other types of
basic jeans. Colored denim, and jeggings (denim leggings) had
attracted consumers back to the premium market in 2011 and 2012.
In general, they did not command super premium prices, and so
gave consumers a more affordable entry-level price point. Those
offerings continued to drive premium purchases in 2013, but
premium jeans designers were scrambling to find the next big thing
in jeans. So far, nothing had taken off with consumers. Moreover, the
dip in denim’s overall popularity from 2008-2012 had not gone
unnoticed by retailers. Retailers cut denim jeans floor space
allocation and increased floor space for women’s dresses and skirts,
and men’s athletic wear and non-denim pants in 2012-2013
compared to 2010-2011. 12


Price points continued to be an issue for premium denim designers
in 2013. Prior to the recession, consumers had been willing to pay
sometimes as much as $600 for a pair of jeans that was “just right.”
“It was all just a fad,” said Jeff Rudes, founder of fast-growing J
Brand premium jeans. 13 Even though the economy improved, many
consumers remained reluctant to pay up for the “right” pair of jeans.
The Wall Street Journal and the New York Times ran stories about
the gulf between premium jeans prices at the cash register and the
price the designers paid to make consumers’ favorite jeans. A 2011
Wall Street Journal article quoted Jeff Lubell as saying True
Religion’s best selling “Super T” jeans cost only about $50 to make,
wholesaled for $152, and retailed at $335 per pair. 14 The press
coverage only served to reinforce consumers’ doubts about whether
the most expensive jeans were “worth it” or not. Despite these
issues, there was some evidence that suggested that Americans’
nearly 140-year old love affair with denim was still going strong in
2013. The question for the industry remained was the market still
“Rich & Skinny”—like denim guru Michael Glasser’s premium brand
—or had it become more like Cheap Monday, the Swedish line of
mid-priced jeans?
Competitive Landscape
Despite the exodus of weaker brands during the recession, the
premium denim market remained crowded. The top four premium
jeans brands held an estimated combined 70% share of the market
in 2012—up from an estimated combined share of 65%-68% in
2007, but down from an estimated 80% in 2009. Conventional
wisdom held that the underlying slowing industry growth combined
with the economic downturn would result in a shakeout that would
leave the strongest premium denim makers in control of the market.
That had not turned out to be the case. In fact, only 3 of the top 5
brands in 2010 remained in the top 5 in 2012. J Brand and Hudson
had replaced Citizens of Humanity and Rock and Republic in the top
5. True Religion and Seven For All Mankind were still the top brands
in the segment, but both had shown signs of losing some of their grip
on the category in the past two years. The remaining 30% of the
market was split between dozens of denim labels.

A July 2013 Internet survey of the five major U.S. upscale
department stores and two prominent denim boutiques revealed that
each carried 66 different brands of women’s premium jeans on
average. The same retailers carried only 28 brands on average in
December 2010. However, some retailers sold many more brands.
Notably, trend setting California-based Revolve Clothing offered 86
different brands of premium women’s jeans—up from 55 in 2010.
Similarly, Nordstrom sold 74 brands of women’s premium jeans
compared to 45 brands in 2010. The explosion in brands highlighted
several features of the premium denim market.

First, it remained relatively easy to launch a new brand and a gain in
retail shelf space. Long a major barrier to entry in consumer products
categories, the fickle nature of many premium denim consumers
made getting retail distribution much less of a problem for an
innovative denim entrée. Fashion consumers were always on the
lookout for the latest, most fashionable items. The shift from the
fashion jean to the wardrobe staple had not diminished the
importance of innovation in style, fit, finish, and fabric to consumers.
Brands that missed key fashion trends frequently were discarded in
favor of upstarts, and retailers were happy to offer the products with
an average retail mark up of 2.2 times their wholesale cost.


Second, upscale retailers continued to try to differentiate their stores
from their rivals’ stores through product offerings and a fashion “point
of view.” Established large brands had to fend off the advances of
upstarts and smaller brands as jeans lines attempted to segment the
premium market and carve out their own niches. The high margins
and returns of the larger players along with low capital requirements
enticed new “jeaners” or denim specialists to enter the segment. As
denim designer Mik Serfontaine stated in a 2010 interview for the
Sundance Channel documentary Dirty Denim, “Make up some
samples and take it to the trade show—you’re in business.” 15


Third, the success of a premium denim line depended heavily upon
the market and fashion insights of the head designer. It was
notoriously difficult for even the savviest designers to generate hit
after hit in the fast-moving fashion world. Once a semi-annual event,
new style launches had become a monthly event in some market
segments such as the popular fast fashion category. Retailers such
as H&M, Forever 21, and Zara had begun to transform the fashion
industry. H&M wanted to “surprise” its customers and always have
something new in stock in order to generate repeat business. Zara
could design and produce its own products and get them on the shelf
within a month. The bi-annual fashion cycle had become a year-
round fashion cycle.


Premium denim was not immune to the nearly constant pressure to
introduce new products to induce consumers to purchase—
especially now that the underlying growth of the U.S. premium denim
market appeared to have experienced a secular slowdown. With
seemingly everyone wearing either premium jeans or less-expensive
jeans with premium features, consumers needed a reason to buy
new jeans. In late 2010, Jeff Rudes gave consumers something new
to purchase by testing and then launching a line of brightly colored
jeans under his J Brand line. So far, nothing had emerged to take the
place of the popular colored jeans or the ubiquitous skinny jean, and
both were easily copied.


Retailers constantly were on the lookout for the next hot brand as
premium denim buyers were fickle. In a recent Cotton, Inc. survey of
premium denim consumers, 84% of those surveyed indicated they
were willing to try a new brand. 16 Table 1   shows the top 11
women’s premium jeans brands by “e-shelf space” or Internet shelf
space devoted to them by the five major upscale department stores
and two denim boutiques in July 2013 compared to e-space in the
same Internet stores in December 2010. Upscale retailers cut
physical shelf space devoted to premium jeans in their brick and
mortar stores, but nearly tripled the amount of premium jeans on
their Internet shopping sites between December 2010 and July 2013.


Table 1 July 2013 e-Shelf Space Survey Top Premium Denim
Brands Selected Upscale Retailer Internet Sites
Source: Internet sites of Bergdorf Goodman, Bloomingdale’s, Neiman-Marcus, Nordstrom, Revolve Clothing, Saks,

and ShopBop.com
While it was not possible to draw a direct line from e-shelf space to
market shares, the Internet survey clearly showed smaller jeans
brands had encroached upon the e-shelf space of the larger brands
as retailers increased their efforts to satisfy the desires of their
customers for hot fashion items and unique looks. J Brand, AG
Jeans, and Rag & Bone were the big winners with the retailers
surveyed. J Brand, now majority owned by Star Capital, had been an
up-and-comer prior to the recession. The three early movers in the
premium denim market—Seven for All Mankind, True Religion, and
Citizens of Humanity—each lost a substantial amount of e-shelf
space between 2010 and 2013. Given True Religion’s aggressive
push into the retail business, it is not surprising that the company’s
major retail accounts would choose to cut back their shelf space
allocations. Still, the e-shelf space loss again raised the question of
whether the older brands remained relevant a decade or more after
their launches into the category.
Manufacturing Process & Supply
Chain
One bale of cotton can be made into 215 pairs of men’s jeans or 250
pairs of women’s jeans, according to the National Cotton Council. 17
At 480 pounds per bale and a 2012 average world cotton price of
about $0.89 per pound, raw cotton accounted for an estimated $1.71
per pair of women’s jeans.

Premium jeans ranged from traditional 100% cotton denim jeans to
jeans made from stretch denim—a combination of cotton and
spandex—to jeans made from denim fabric composed of cotton and
small amounts of polyester. Nevertheless, cotton was the major raw
material for premium jeans. Like other commodity markets, cotton
prices were driven by worldwide supply and demand. Improvements
in farm techonology and farming practices had reduced production
costs signficantly and had in turn, helped push cotton prices to their
lowest levels in over 30 years in 2001. As was typical of the market,
cotton prices rose and fell through 2009 when unusually low
stockpiles, heavy rains and flooding in China and Pakistan, and
export restrictions in India reduced the cotton supply and pushed
prices up to a 150-year high in 2010. Calendar year prices were up
68% on average to nearly $1.00 per pound. Prices surged an
additional 48% on average in 2011 to about $1.05 per pound before
easing back to $0.93 per pound in June 2013. 18
U.S. denim producers dominated worldwide production and exports
of the fabric for many years, but had been surpassed by China due
to favorable production costs. U.S. production had declined for years
as manufacturers closed American mills and relocated capacity to
lower-cost countries. North Carolina-based Cone Mills, known as the
“King of Denim,” was the world’s largest producer of denim fabric for
most of its 120-year existence. While the company remained a major
player in the industry, Cone struggled against low cost international
competition and the phase out of U.S. denim fabric quotas. The
company was known for its ability to produce high-quality denim and
had been the sole supplier of denim to Levi’s for nearly 40 years.


Nearly all domestic premium jeans companies preferred to source
denim fabric from U.S. suppliers like Cone’s famous White Oak Mill.
Their designers felt the fabric was superior in quality and gave their
jeans “authenticity” associated with being made in the United States.
Premium denim jeans companies all demanded high quality, and
many were willing to pay for Cone’s special vintage selvage denim
made on narrow Draper fly-shuttle looms that went out of production
in the 1970s. Highly prized by denim zealots for its durability and
beauty, selvage denim was used only in the most expensive jeans.
According to Kenneth Kunberger, International Textile Group’s Chief
Operating Officer, Cone’s White Oak Mill was the only mill in the
world using the old fly-shuttle looms in 2012. 19 Some premium jeans
makers swore by Japanese and Italian denim fabric. At any rate,
denim fabric makers like Cone and privately held Swift Denim had
low margins and little bargaining power. As it had been for more than
a decade, the issue for U.S. denim makers in 2013 was survival in
the face of intense competition from foreign competitors.


Each pair of jeans used about 1.5 yards of denim fabric. While basic
denim went for $2-3 per yard, premium denim typically sold for about
$7 per yard, but could wholesale for $15 or more per yard. The usual
fabric cost per pair was around $11. Most upscale jeans companies
did not own their own manufacturing capacity, rather they used
contract manufacturers to cut and sew the fabric into jeans. There
were thousands of cut and sew operations around the world, but the
U.S. premium brands all used U.S. manufacturers. About 75% of all
premium denim was made in Los Angeles in 2012. The premium
denim companies liked the shorter lead times and lower shipping
costs as well as high quality control they got by using domestic
suppliers. In addition, they felt U.S. consumers wanted and expected
their expensive jeans to be “made in America”—the inventor of blue
jeans. Manufacturing costs came in at about $10 per pair with
another $2 per pair spent on shipping.


Garments went from the factory to denim laundries, which were
responsible for the all-important finishing process. Many jeans
designers hung their shingles out in Los Angeles due to the
prevalence of laundries in the LA area. “Raw” jeans underwent a
variety of labor-intensive finishing processes including special
washes, sand blasting, painting, bleaching, ripping, tearing, the
addition of whiskers, the application of resins, baking, and pocket
embroidery. One popular process, stonewashing, literally involved
putting jeans in huge washers full of pumice stones in order to break
the denim fibers down and make them softer.


One pair of jeans could undergo 15 different treatments before
achieving the desired “look.” The finishing process added about $12
per pair to the cost of a pair of premium jeans. However, some
washes could run to $16 per pair or even much higher. In the
Sundance Channel documentary, Dirty Denim, Chip Foster (co-
founder of Chip N Pepper) points out a pair of jeans with a $25 wash
made to give the appearance of having been worn extensively. 20
According to the designer, it would take approximately six years of
wear to get the same look provided by the expensive wash.

Jeff Lubell dissected the manufacturing cost of a pair of $310 (retail)
True Religion “Phantom” jeans for the Wall Street Journal in 2011. 21
According to Lubell, raw Phantom jeans cost $56 to make. Wash
expenses added $6-16 per pair to the cost of the jeans for a total
manufacturing cost of $62-72 for a finished pair. True Religion
marked up the jeans 2.2x-2.5x to $140-160 per pair and sold them to
retailers. Retailers then tacked on an additional $150-170 per pair to
arrive at the cash register price of $310 per pair. The retail mark-up
on a pair of premium jeans averaged 2.2x. Through this mark-up
process, the designers and their retail partners captured the lion’s
share of the profits in the industry. The contract manufacturing model
had worked well for denim designers, even though it created an
opportunity for jeans cut and sew operators to forward vertically
integrate into jeans design and marketing. So far though, none of
them had been successful in carving out a position in the premium
jeans segment.

Outsourcing was the norm in the U.S. premium denim market, but
some prominent premium denim designers began to bring key
aspects of the manufacturing process in-house from 2010-2013.
Most notably, Seven for All Mankind started manufacturing
operations in its Vernon, CA headquarters by bringing in-house
denim cutting, embroidery, and finishing. The company added
sewing to the internal process in 2011. The company intended to
make all of its own jeans without relying on outside contractors. “One
[factor] was controlling our destiny, having more control of our
process. There was some cost advantage. The other was speed to
market. In today’s world, we need to be quicker,” said Barry Miguel,
President of Seven For All Mankind. 22 Seven For All Mankind was
unusually well equipped to handle the challenge of backward vertical
integration as its parent company, VF Corporation, was the largest
apparel company in the world and had been making Lee jeans since
1889, and Wrangler’s since the 1940s. VF Corp. hoped to bring its
expertise in research and development as well as enormous
purchasing power to Seven to hold down cost increases and develop
innovative products. VF Corp.’s CEO, Steve Wiseman liked to say
the company was the largest zipper buyer in the world.

Retailers’ demand for quicker speed to market was a powerful
motive for producing domestically. Peter Kim, president of Hudson
Jeans, said that in 2010 he could take 8 to 12 weeks to produce and
ship a new style, and between 6 to 8 weeks to fill a reorder. A year
later, Kim said he needed to deliver new styles in 6 to 8 weeks, and
fill reorders in 2 to 6 weeks. Hudson’s approach was to outsource
most production tasks to companies in the L.A. area—all within a few
miles of the firm’s headquarters. Bringing all of the production
process in-house would reduce the turnaround time on new products
even further. However, Hudson’s Kim noted that doing the entire
manufacturing process in-house, “was like running 10 or 12 other
businesses.“ 23


J Brand’s approach was to share its headquarters space with an
independent, but captive manufacturer. It was this relationship and
proximity to the factory that allowed Jeff Rudes to observe the return
of colors to the high-fashion runways in Europe in September 2010
and launch a test line of brightly colored denim jeans in Barney’s NY
five months later. A short time later, J Brand rolled out its line of
colored denim nation wide.

While it was possible for the jeans companies to backward vertically
integrate into the finishing end of production, very few U.S. designers
had opted to do so as it generally fell out of the area of management
expertise and required meaningful capital investment. Citizens of
Humanity brand was an exception as the line reportedly produced
1,000,000 pairs of jeans per year in its own denim laundry in Los
Angeles. 24 Moreover, different laundries had developed distinctive
skills with different types of finishes. LA’s washhouses were known
for their high levels of technical skill and for innovation. As industry
growth slowed, more denim companies might opt for ownership of
denim laundries despite the barriers to entry. The wash and other
finishing treatments had become increasingly important
differentiating features of premium denim lines—making keeping the
finishing details proprietary critical to success. Washhouses typically
did not work exclusively for one premium denim customer. While the
designers endeavored to keep details about fit and finish secret, it
was extremely difficult to do so given the nature of the denim
laundries and their processes. Many denim designers had so far
opted to stick with the traditional contract manufacturing model, but
the model appeared to be changing in 2013.
VF Corporation and Seven For All
Mankind
VF Corporation was the world’s largest apparel company with 2012
revenues of $10.8B. The company began in 1899 as a glove and
mitten manufacturer, but diversified into women’s silk lingerie in
1914. The company retained the initials “VF” after dropping the
Vanity Fair moniker following the acquisition of Lee jeans in 1969.
Lee was one of the oldest apparel brands in the United States,
having been established in 1899 (about 25 years after Levi Strauss).
VF went on to acquire Wrangler and Rustler as part of its friendly
acquisition of Blue Bell in 1986. In 2007, VF Corp acquired Seven
For All Mankind, the leading premium denim brand in the United
States.


VF Corporation adopted a new corporate strategy in 2004. Its vision
was to, “grow by building leading lifestyle brands that excite
consumers around the world.” 25 In other words, the company
wanted to transform itself into a global lifestyle apparel company with
60% of revenues being derived from lifestyle brands by 2015. As
part of that initiative, it sought to stay on top of the apparel market by
combining design and science to create value-added products for
consumers. According to company statements, “innovation is about
much more than delivering a new product, fabric, or
style . . . Innovation is a holistic process, one that touches every
aspect of our enterprise—branding, supply chain management,
global expansion, even our corporate citizenship initiatives.” 26
Management saw growth in lifestyle brands, an increase in company
owned stores, and international expansion as keys to longer-term
success. In particular, VF Corp. planned to double the number of
company owned stores and increase its product mix to 60% lifestyle
brands by 2015. By the end of 2012, VF owned 1,129 stores around
the world including 1,049 single brand stores. Direct-to-consumer
sales accounted for 21% of global revenues.


VF had massive global operations in which it managed 450 million
units across 36 brands in nearly every country in the world in 2012.
Unlike many of its competitors, VF used a mix of 29 company-owned
and operated manufacturing facilities, and 1,900 contract
manufacturers. As is noted in VF’s 2012 10K filing, company-owned
facilities in the Western Hemisphere generally delivered lower-cost
products, but contractor sourced goods offered more flexibility and
shorter lead times. As a result, VF balanced the need for lower cost
manufacturing costs with the ability to hold lower inventories
resulting from the use of contractors. In addition to global sourcing of
raw materials and manufacturing, the company used “best of class”
technology to manage its resources. Best of class technology
extended to inventory management at the retail level. VF employed a
point-of-sale inventory management system that allowed it to gather
daily sales information down to the individual store and sku level
(size, style, color detail). The company believed this point-of-sale
inventory system gave it an advantage over its less sophisticated
competitors. Its five largest customers accounted for 16% of 2012
sales and were all located in the United States. The company’s
single largest customer was Wal-Mart, which accounted for 8% of
revenues in 2012.


The company’s brands were organized into “coalitions” including
jeanswear, outdoor, imagewear, sportswear, and contemporary.
Seven For All Mankind was placed into the newly created
contemporary group in August 2007. At the time of the acquisition,
domestic sales accounted for 75% of Seven’s total revenues. By the
end of 2012, international revenues had jumped to 37% of brand
sales. While some of the increase was due to VF Corp.’s aggressive
expansion in international markets, the U.S. business had suffered
due to the recession and slumping premium denim industry sales.
Seven for All Mankind’s large share of the premium segment made it
difficult for the brand to outperform the category.


In addition, Seven appeared to be struggling to maintain its position
in the market as it lost ground to the likes of True Religion and J
Brand even as the premium denim category recovered. VF Corp.
had taken a nearly $200 million impairment charge to the Seven
brand in 2010—indicating that the asset was no longer worth the
$775 million that the company paid for it less than three years earlier.
At VF’s June 2013 Investor Day, management stated that Seven’s
2012 total revenues came in at $300 million 27 —putting the brand’s
revenues at about the same level as estimated 2007 revenues.
Recent results raised questions about the relevance of Seven’s
brand to premium denim consumers, and the likelihood that the
brand could make the jump to lifestyle status
Joe’s Jeans
Moroccan-born Joe Dahan (no relation to Jerome Dahan of Seven
and Citizens fame) entered the fashion business with a line of men’s
formal wear and dress shirts in 1986 that rang up $8 million in sales
when Joe was just 17 years old. 28 From 1996-2001, Dahan was the
head designer for Azteca Productions, a private label manufacturer
of sportswear and denim. Dahan entered the premium denim market
in 2001 with five styles of fashion jeans under the Joe’s Jeans brand.
The products retailed for $124 to $155 per pair. In March 2001,
Innovo Group purchased the rights to the Joe’s Jeans brand from
Azteca, and moved into the premium denim market. Innovo later
changed its name to Joe’s Jeans and traded on the NASDAQ market
under the JOEZ symbol.

Joe’s Jeans emphasized fit rather than the hottest trend. As Dahan
said in a 2005 interview, “We’ve always been about clean, even
when the market was embellished. We’re not about fast or trendy.” 29
Joe’s Jeans aficionados sang the praises of the line claiming the
jeans had an “insanely good fit.” Joe Dahan’s attention to fit paid off
with first year sales coming in at $9.1 million. The line retailed at tony
department stores like Barney’s New York, Nordstrom,
Bloomingdale’s, and Macy’s as well as boutiques catering to affluent
shoppers. The company’s ten largest customers accounted for 61%
of sales in 2012. Nordstrom, Bloomingdale’s, and Macy’s were Joe’s
three largest customers. In 2009, the three together had accounted
for 47% of sales. Joe’s like its larger competitors had moved to open
its own retail stores in order to boost margins and reduce its
dependence on upscale department store retailers. By the end of
2012, Joe’s owned 11 full priced retail stores and 19 outlet stores in
the United States. Total sales rang up at more than $118 million in
2012 with about 95% of sales derived from the U.S. market.


Joe’s took two major steps to improve its position in the U.S. market
in 2012 and 2013. Hedging its bets on premium denim, the company
launched an exclusive line, else™, sold primarily by Macy’s. The
new line was priced at $68—putting it squarely in the mid-priced
segment of the jeans market. From February 2012-December 2012,
else™ generated about $7.5 million in sales. In July 2013, Joe’s
announced it had reached an agreement to purchase premium
denim brand, Hudson for about $98 million. Marc Crossman,
President and Chief Executive Officer of Joe’s Jeans, stated, “We
are extremely excited about joining forces with Hudson Jeans. Once
the acquisition is complete, we expect to nearly double the size of
our business, meaningfully increase our international and e-
commerce penetration, and enhance our overall prospects for
growth.” 30 Crossman went on to say that he expected to be able to
leverage the company’s sourcing capabilities to realize cost savings
and significantly reduce input costs. With the addition of Hudson,
Joe’s became a more formidable competitor in the premium denim
industry.
True Religion Brand Jeans
Jeff Lubell had struck out on two occasions previously in his attempt
to shift from textile salesman to independent jeans designer. He and
his wife launched two jeans labels in the late 1990s—Bella Dahl and
Jeffri Jeans—and lost both after running out of cash. In 2002, the
Lubell’s launched a new premium denim line, True Religion Brand
Jeans. This time things would turn out differently for the 46-year old
Los Angeles resident.

The brand hit store shelves in December 2002 with 5 styles of
women’s jeans available in 5 different “washes” under the True
Religion label. The corporate logo appeared on every tag and
featured a fat, smiling Buddha strumming a guitar. WWD interviewed
Lubell for the article and quoted him as saying, “there are a lot of
women who love to wear their boyfriend’s jeans or husband’s jeans.
This plays off of that.” The jeans had one of the lowest rises on the
market and some of the highest prices. Lubell created “buzz” for the
line by sending celebrity trendsetters free pairs of jeans with the
hope they would appear in photos in the popular press wearing jeans
with True Religion’s signature horseshoe-shaped back pocket
stitching. The strategy worked, and the line’s sales took off. First
year sales came in at $2.4 million, and jumped to $27.7 million in
2004.
The popularity of “distressed,” “destroyed,” and “embellished” jeans
helped drive growth in the premium denim segment for years. These
popular “looks” required a substantial amount of additional labor to
produce relative to basic denim looks. They all commanded a
significant premium to the more basic models in the True Religion
portfolio with prices starting well-above $200 per pair. Some True
Religion models went for over $500 per pair at retail. In 2008,
premium denim designers responded to the mood of the times and
moved away from elaborate finishing details back to more basic
styles as consumers became interested in styles that would stay
fashionable for years rather than for a season. True Religion
followed suit and emphasized the lower-priced, more basic items in
its line up. Nevertheless, the brand remained one of the highest
priced on the market with an average selling point of $196 for
women’s jeans and $192 for men’s jeans in 2009. In company-
owned stores, True Religion’s price peaked at a staggering $272 per
pair in 1Q:09.


The company relied on Jeff Lubell’s fashion sense and ability to spot
the right trends to sell the “hottest” jean styles. He occupied the
unusual position of CEO and ‘chief merchant” at True Religion.
Lubell had an impressive track record, but True Religion’s sales to
the wholesale off-price channel had become worryingly large by
2009. The company used off-price retailers such as Nordstrom Rack
as well as its own outlet stores to sell slow moving and obsolete
inventory. Moreover, the recession and a series of fashion missteps
cost True Religion some of its followers. Lubell initially dismissed
skinny jeans as a fad and was slow to introduce a True Religion
version of the popular pants. Lubell considered True Religion to be a
trendsetter rather than a follower. After all, he pioneered the
incredibly popular oversized stitching on jeans as well as the ultra
destroyed look among others. According to Diana Katz, an analyst at
Lazard Capital, ”He thought they’d trend back to bell bottoms and
wider bottoms, but it never happened.” 31 Similarly, Lubell missed the
colored denim trend and refused to lower prices on True Religion
products. After a lot of sales pressure, Lubell rolled out a lower-
priced line of simpler, cleaner jeans with a small, unobtrusive logo on
the back pocket. True Religion consumers did not respond well to
the line as part of the appeal of the brand lay in its garish oversized
back-pocket stitching and instantly recognizable logo. Moreover, the
jeans were priced at $230 price compared to $150 for similar jeans
from competing brands. The line was discontinued.


True Religion planned to introduce a new “core denim” assortment in
2013, and increase the differentiation between its women’s and
men’s jeans. While True Religion had struggled in the women’s
denim segment, the company’s men’s line held its own from 2009-
2012. The company made three other key changes in 2013. It shifted
some design responsibilities for its European business to Europe
from California, and began a consumer preference study. The
company expected the study to give it insights into consumer
purchase behavior that would allow its designers a greater
opportunity to spot promising fashion trends. Finally, Jeff Lubell
stepped down as the company’s chief merchant and CEO in March
2013. Lubell would remain a creative consultant to True Religion but
would no longer be responsible for its designs and operations. In this
way, True Religion’s Board hoped to reinvigorate the brand.
True Religion’s Strategy
The company’s initial strategy was to emphasize distribution through
upscale department stores and boutiques and outsource every
function except design and marketing to third parties. By the end of
2005, True Religion jeans sold in about 600 specialty store and
boutique doors as well as about 200 upscale department store
doors. Its customer line up was a “who’s who” of upscale retailers
including Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus, Saks Fifth Avenue, Barney’s,
Henri Bendel, Bergdorf Goodman, Bloomingdale’s, and Marshall
Fields. By late 2006, True Religion’s focus had shifted away from
selling products wholesale to selling its products through company-
owned stores.

True Religion management, under then President Michael Buckley,
had started to vertically integrate into retail for several reasons. First,
the company had faced resistance from retailers when it tried to
diversify away from denim jeans into adjacent clothing categories
such as sportswear. Big retailers viewed True Religion as a denim
label—not as an apparel brand. Owning its own stores allowed True
Religion to introduce a broader range of apparel to its customers.
Management hoped that the sell-through figures from company-
owned stores on non-denim items would convince its retail accounts
to carry the full line of True Religion apparel. Diversifying into other
apparel categories and related product lines was absolutely critical to
achieving management’s goal of creating a lifestyle brand.
In its full priced company-owned stores, sales of non-denim items
had increased from 10% of sales to 35% of sales in six years.
However, non-denim items only accounted for an estimated 20% of
the company’s total U.S. sales, as True Religion largely had been
unable to convince its retail accounts to carry its non-denim items.
Moreover, the company’s licensing revenues were a puny $2.7
million in 2012—down from over $5 million in 2010. Licensing was
critical to establishing a lifestyle brand especially for a relatively
small company with specialized management expertise. In order to
expand into non-apparel categories, True Religion needed partners
—partners that would manufacture and market True Religion
branded fragrances, sunglasses, jewelry, watches, and any other
products that fit with True Religion’s brand image.


Second, the margins in the company owned stores were even higher
than True Religion’s very high denim margins as the company
captured the retail mark-up as well as its traditional wholesale mark
up. Management estimated that retail store gross margin would
come in at 75% and four-wall contribution margin would be about
40% as the company captured the benefits of the typical retail
markup on its products as well as existing wholesale margin. Third,
company owned outlet stores gave True Religion a place to sell
seconds, irregulars, and slow moving merchandise. Without these
outlet stores, True Religion brand products could surface in any type
of discount outlet—potentially damaging the brand’s premium
positioning. Prior to 2007, True Religion jeans appeared in Filene’s
Basement, Costco, Century 21 and similar outlets on occasion.
Fourth, using company-owned stores helped reduce the firm’s
dependence on retailers and reduced the risk of major disruptions in
sales. Company-owned stores and e-Commerce accounted for 60%
of revenues in 2012 compared to 17% in 2007. In total, True Religion
owned 122 stores in the United States and 30 international stores at
year-end 2012. Over time, management planned to open 100 stores
in the United States. Nordstrom and Nordstrom Rack remained True
Religion’s most important retail account. While 2012 figures were
unavailable, Nordstrom alone had accounted for 15.2% of the
company’s net sales in 2009.


As True Religion expanded the number of company owned stores,
its retail business took off—growing 57% per year on average for the
five years ended December 2012. Operating profit before
unallocated corporate expenses grew at a slower rate, but
nonetheless averaged 51% per year growth over the period. At first
glance it was difficult to understand how the company could have
been characterized as “struggling” and in need of a “savior.”
Investors were focused on four issues—the sharp slowdown in
growth in the U.S. direct-to-consumer business (company-owned
stores) and the accompanying huge drop in gross profit margin for
the segment, the persistent weakness in wholesale sales especially
in women’s jeans, and the collapse in profits from international
markets that occurred despite strong sales growth in those markets.

Some of the slowdown in the direct to consumer segment growth in
the United States was attributable to the law of large numbers. As
the business became larger it took a greater and greater amount of
incremental sales in absolute dollars to generate the same sales
growth rate. In 2009, the direct-to-consumer business reported a
71% jump in revenues to $129 million or an increase of about $54
million. The same $54 million increase would have resulted in only
21% growth in 2012 as the business had nearly doubled to $251
million. Nevertheless, investors were concerned when the high-flying
direct to consumer business reported a mere 12% increase in
revenues despite almost a 12% increase in the total number of
stores owned. The company’s same store sales (sales in stores
open for 13 months or more) were up 2.7% for the year.


At the beginning of the retail store expansion plan, then company
President Michael Buckley estimated that retail store gross margin
would come in at 75% and four-wall contribution margin would be
about 40% as the company captured the benefits of the typical retail
markup on its products as well as existing wholesale margin. For the
first few years of the expansion, management’s prediction turned out
to be an accurate one as gross margin for the consumer direct
segment (company owned stores and e-commerce) leapt to a peak
of nearly 77% in 2008 before dipping to 74% in 2009, and ending up
at about 70% in 2012.


Similarly, segment operating profit margin before unallocated
corporate expense plunged from a peak of 40.6% in 2007 to 33.3%
in 2012. Some of the drop off in profit margins was attributable to the
costs of rolling out so many stores in a relatively short period of time.
However, most of the decline in profitability was a result of two
factors—an unfavorable mix shift toward sales in outlet stores and
the overall decline in average denim prices paid in the company’s
stores. Both factors suggested the underlying appeal of the brand
was waning among the fashion forward affluent crowd True Religion
had wooed so assiduously for the past decade. More shoppers
looking for True Religion jeans in outlet stores was likely a result of
fewer shoppers being willing to pay up for jeans priced above $200
per pair, in line with industry trends towards lower priced jeans. The
fashion missteps that had plagued the company over the past few
years had forced True Religion to discount more of its line to move
the product. Chart 1 shows the decline in average prices paid by
consumers for True Religion Jeans (excluding sportswear) in
company-owned stores from their peak in 1Q, 2009 through 4Q,
2012.
Chart 1 Average Price/Pair Company-Owned Stores
Source: True Religion quarterly management comments, and author’s estimates.




At the same time company-store growth appeared to be fueled
mainly by store expansion and discounting, True Religion’s
wholesale business had increasingly shifted away from full-line
department stores toward off-price channels. In recent quarters,
shoppers had gravitated to the most heavily discounted True
Religion items in off price stores. The combination of all of these
factors had investors spooked as concerns about the underlying
health of the brand came to the forefront. One bright spot for the
brand suggested it had not yet lost its cache. Sales to the specialty
boutique channel had increased for 11 straight quarters. Much of the
brand’s success in its early days was due to the endorsement of
specialty boutique owners. Improving sales trends with these savvy
buyers could signal that the brand was regaining its momentum in
the U.S. market.

True Religion’s brand positioning as a “Made in the U.S.A.” product
based upon a unique combination of a Wild West, cowboy heritage
paired with a California-hippie-bohemian image had played well in
international markets especially in Japan during the brand’s early
days. Affluent Japanese consumers paid top-dollar for American
icons like vintage Levis. True Religion capitalized on its American
origins by purchasing its high quality denim fabric from Cone Mills
and using domestic contract manufacturers and L.A. washhouses to
finish its jeans. Management felt the “authenticity” of an American-
made jean was a critical aspect of the brand’s image—particularly in
international markets. Eric Beder, an analyst with Brean Murray told
the LA Times in 2009, “In the United States, people care that their
jeans are manufactured here. To consumers outside the United
States, it’s crucial . . . In order to be considered a real premium
brand, you need to have the Made in the USA label on it.” 32 True
Religion off shored production of non-denim items such as hoodies
and T-shirts, where country of origin was not important to
consumers.
Management Changes and The
Future of True Religion
True Religion’s financial performance generally was good between
2006 and first quarter 2009. The company was well on its way to
establishing 100 company-owned stores in the United States. The
True Religion brand appeared strong at the #2 position in the U.S.
market. Then, in May 2010, CEO Michael Buckley abruptly resigned
from the company. Two days before his resignation, Buckley sold
over 193,000 shares of stock. The company offered no explanation
for Buckley’s resignation, and promptly replaced him with Mike
Egeck about two weeks later. Egeck had served as the CEO of
Seven for All Mankind. Four months later, True Religion reported
disappointing sales and earnings and lowered its full–year 2010
forecast. The timing of Buckley’s departure and the speed at which
he was replaced suggested Lubell was aware that Buckley planned
to leave—or had forced him out. As Chairman and CEO, Lubell had
an enormous amount of influence with the company’s Board of
Directors. Egeck left True Religion to “pursue other opportunities” in
August 2011. Egeck was reportedly “poached” by Hurley to become
its CEO. True Religion promoted Lynn Koplin to replace Egeck.
Koplin succeeded Jeff Lubell as the company’s interim CEO.


True Religion’s strategy and objectives had been clear under the
guidance of Jeff Lubell and Michael Buckley. The company stuck to
its approach of adding retail stores and transforming itself into an
upscale purveyor of its own brand under Egeck and after his
departure. Although neither Lubell nor Koplin had publicly
commented about Lubell’s long-standing objective of reaching $1B in
sales, the company’s actions demonstrated that it pursued “lifestyle”
brand status for the denim label. It was not clear in July 2013 that the
company’s sale to private equity firm, TowerBrook, would enhance
its position in the premium denim industry. Would new ownership
give the team at True Religion more freedom to experiment with
design out of the public spotlight? Could True Religion regain its
“must have brand” status in the important U.S. premium denim
market or would the brand be forced to reposition itself at lower price
points to survive?


Exhibit A True Religion Brand Jeans Operating Segments ($ in
thousands)
Source: True Religion Apparel Inc. 10K - 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012.
a. Licensing revenues generated by royalty agreements.


b. Unallocated corporate expenses.


c. Unallocated corporate assets.

Exhibit B:True Religion Brand Jeans Selected Financials ($ in
thousands except per share amounts)
Source: True Religion 10Ks 2007–2012
Exhibit C:2012 Selected Financials - Jeans Companies ($ in
thousands except per share amounts and betas)
a. Formerly Liz Claiborne-owns Lucky Jeans.


b. Guess comparable store sales and sales mix for North America.

c. Lucky Brand Jeans stores only.


d. Estimated Lucky Jeans sales only. Does not include other FNP
brands.


e. 7 for All Mankind only.
2013 Footnotes
1    Escape From Hell For True Religion by James Covert New York Post May 11, 2013.
http://www.nypost.com/p/news/business/
escape_from_hell_for_true_religion_irDO7jxZYTFFLz7Jt76DLJ Accessed July 25,
2013.
2    (1991). A comfortable fit: Levi Strauss has prospered by combining maverick
marketing with gentle style of management. (company profile). “The Economist (U.S.).
Economist Newspaper Ltd., June 22. Retrieved from High Beam.
3    Ozzard, J. (1997). “Shortening the denim pipeline (inventory management).” Women’s
Wear Daily, May 8.
4    Knight, M. (1999). “Hot new Jeans will be down and dirty at MAGIC; for spring 2000,
light washes are re-creating that old, friendly, worn blue denim look.” Daily News Record,
May 23.
5    http://lifestylemonitor.cottoninc.com/how-many-denim-garments-do-men-and-
women-own/ Accessed July 25, 2013.
6    http://lifestylemonitor.cottoninc.com/how-many-denim-garments-do-men-and-
women-own/ Accessed July 25, 2013.
7    The “Aspirational” Consumer: R.I.P. by Robert Klara Brandweek.com November 7,
2010. Accessed 12/31/10.
8    64 pc U.S. shoppers reluctant to return old buying habits: study by Tricia Carr. Luxury
Daily July 11, 2012. https://www.luxurydaily.com/64-pc-us-shoppers-reluctant-to-
return-to-old-buying-habits-study/ Accessed July 25, 2013.
9    10 Wardrobe Essentials Every Woman Should Own by Laurel Pantin. Glamour. August
10, 2012. http://www.glamour.com/fashion/2012/08/10-wardrobe-essentials-every-
woman-should-own#slide=replay.
10      The death of $200 + jeans?! by Alexandra Hazlett. NY Daily News. July 31, 2009.
http://www.nydailynews.com/2.1353/death-200-jeans-article-1.176339 Accessed July
15, 2013.
11      Analysis: Garmentos Proclaim the End of Denim Dominance by Alexandria Sage.
Reuters Business & Financial News August 27, 2010.
12    Driving Demand For Denim Jeans. Lifestyle Monitor: Cotton, Inc. July 15, 2013.
http://lifestylemonitor.cottoninc.com/driving-demand-for-denim-jeans/
13    Preshrunk Prices by Eric Wilson. New York Times. October 28, 2009. http://
www.nytimes.com/2009/10/29/fashion/29JEANS.html?pagewanted=all. Accessed July
15, 2013.
14    How Can Jeans Cost $300? by Christina Binkley Wall Street Journal July 7, 2011.
http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702303365804576429730284498872.html?
mg=id-wsj Accessed July 25, 2013.
15    Dirty Denim Introduction by Douglas Keeve. Sundance Channel Documentary. http://
www.sundancechannel.com/digital-shorts/#/theme/64930111001/64683988001.
Accessed 12/30/10.
16    Cotton Inc. Press Release. (2005). “Premium Denim: Fit to be Tried.” September 12.
17    World Cotton Supply and Demand. National Cotton Council of America. http://
www.cotton.org/econ/cropinfo/supply-demand.cfm. Accessed 12/30/10.
18    Monthly Prices. National Cotton Council. http://www.cotton.org/econ/prices/
monthly.cfm Accessed July 25, 2013.
19    An Old Mill, Back In Fashion. Bloomberg Business Week May 21-27, 2012.
http://www.conedenim.com/Bloomberg_May_2012.html. Accessed July 26, 2013.
20    Dirty Denim Episode 2 The Wash by Douglas Keeve. Sundance Channel
Documentary. http://www.sundancechannel.com/digital-shorts/#/theme/64930111001/
64571005001 Accessed 12/30/10.
21    How Can Jeans Cost $300? by Christina Binkley Wall Street Journal July 7, 2011.
http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702303365804576429730284498872.html?
mg=id-wsj Accessed July 25, 2013.
22    L.A. Jeans Makers Put Premium on Local Production by Khanh T.L. Tran WWD:
Women’s Wear Daily. 11/9/2011, Vol. 202 Issue 97, p14b-1.
23    Ibid.
24    AG Jeans Exclusive Interview. https://www.wgsn.com/blogs/ag-jeans-exclusive-
interview/#. Accessed July 25, 2013.
25    http://www.vfc.com/about/vision-values. Accessed December 2008.
26    Ibid.
27    Contemporary Brands Presentation by Susan Kellogg, President – Contemporary
Brands Coalition, VF Corporation. VF Corp. 17 x 17 Powerful Brands/Powerful Platforms.
June 11, 2013. http://www.vfc.com/one-vf/growth-strategy/17x17. Accessed July 23,
2013.
28      “Blue blood; The Dahan brothers reflect on the highs and lows of developing their
denim lines. (Occupation Overview) “Daily News Record, October 15.
29      ibid.
30      Joe’s Jeans to Acquire Hudson Clothing. Joe’s Jeans company press release.
July 15, 2013. http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20130715006319/en/
Joe%25E2%2580%2599s-Jeans-Acquire-Hudson-Clothing Accessed July 25, 2013.
31      Looking For Investor Faith in True Religion by Janet Morrissey. Fortune. November
20, 2012 http://fortune.com/2012/11/20/looking-for-investor-faith-in-true-religion/
Accessed July 20, 2013.
32      In L.A. Pricey Denim Jumps Off the Racks by Ronald White. May 27, 2009 LA Times.
Case 1–3: Walmart Stores, Inc.
In November of 2013, Doug McMillon had just
been named the CEO of Walmart Stores, Inc.
effective February 1, 2014. McMillon had unique
preparation for the job. He had held senior
executive positions in Walmart’s domestic
operations and had presided over both the
company’s international operations and Sam’s
Club, Walmart’s discount club chain. McMillon
would likely need to draw upon his diverse
experiences to successfully lead the company in
the face of mounting challenges.

As recently as 1979, Walmart had been a
regional retailer little known outside the South
with 229 discount stores compared to the
industry leader Kmart’s 1,891 stores. In less
than 25 years, Walmart had risen to become the
largest U.S. corporation in sales. With more than
$469 billion in revenues (see Exhibits 1 and
2 ), Walmart had far eclipsed not only Kmart
but all retail competitors. Yet another measure of
Walmart’s dominance was that it accounted for
approximately 45 percent of general
merchandise, 30 percent of health and beauty
aids, and 29 percent of non-food grocery sales1
in the United States. Forbes put Walmart’s
success into perspective:
  . . . all that’s left for Walmart is mop-up. It already sells
  more toys than Toys “R” Us, more clothes than the Gap
  and Limited combined, and more food than Kroger. If it
  were its own economy, Walmart Stores would rank 30th
  in the world, right behind Saudi Arabia. Growing at 11
  percent a year, Walmart would hit half a trillion dollars in
  sales by early in the next decade.2


Exhibit 1 Walmart Stores, Inc., Income
Statement, 2009–2013
Exhibit 2 Walmart Stores, Inc., Balance Sheet
Despite its remarkable record of success,
though, Walmart was not without challenges.
Many observers believed that the company
would find it increasingly difficult to sustain its
remarkable record of growth (see Exhibit 3 ).
Walmart faced a maturing market in its core
business that would not likely see the growth
rates it had previously enjoyed. Growth in same-
store sales had declined in multiple quarters in
the previous year. Many investors believed that
Walmart had reached a point of saturation with
its stores. Supercenters had provided significant
growth for Walmart, but it was not clear how
long they could deliver the company’s customary
growth rates. The company added new stores at
a prodigious rate, but the new stores often
cannibalized sales from nearby Walmart stores.
Walmart faced problems in other business areas
as well. The Walmart-owned Sam’s Club
warehouse stores had not measured up to
Costco, their leading competitor. International
operations were another challenge for Walmart.
Faced with slowing growth domestically, it had
tried to capitalize on international opportunities.
These international efforts, however, had met
with only mixed success at best.
Exhibit 3 Walmart Sales Growth by Segment,
2011–2013 (in millions USD)

Walmart was also a target for critics who
attacked its record on social issues.3 Walmart
had been blamed for pushing production from
the United States to low-wage overseas
producers. Some claimed that Walmart had
almost single-handedly depressed wage growth
in the U.S. economy. For many, Walmart had
become a symbol of capitalism that had run out
of control. Indeed, Time magazine asked, “Will
Walmart Steal Christmas?”4 Much of the
criticism directed at Walmart did not go beyond
angry rhetoric. In many cases, however,
Walmart had faced stiff community opposition to
building new stores.

With such challenges, some investment analysts
questioned whether it was even possible for a
company like Walmart, with more than $469
billion in sales, to sustain its accustomed high
growth rates. To do so, Walmart would have to
address a number of challenges such as
maturing markets, competition in discount
retailing from both traditional competitors and
specialty retailers, aggressive efforts by
competitors to imitate Walmart’s products and
processes, international expansion, and
increasing competition from online retailers.
Indeed, some believed that Walmart would need
to find new business if it were to continue its
historic success.
The Discount Retail Industry
General retailing in the United States evolved dramatically during the
20th century. Before 1950, general retailing most often took the form
of Main Street department stores. These stores typically sold a wide
variety of general merchandise. Department stores were also
different from other retailers in that they emphasized service and
credit. Before World War II, few stores allowed customers to take
goods directly from shelves. Instead, sales clerks served customers
at store counters. Not until the 1950s did self-help department stores
begin to spread. Discount retail stores also began to emerge in the
late 1950s. Discount retailers emphasized low prices and generally
offered less service, credit, and return privileges. Their growth was
spawned by the repeal of fair trade laws in many states. Many states
had passed such laws during the Depression to protect local grocers
from chains such as the Atlantic & Pacific Company. The laws fixed
prices so that local merchants could not be undercut on price. The
repeal of these laws freed discounters to offer prices below the
manufacturer’s suggested retail price.


Among discount retailers, there were both general and specialty
chains. General chains carried a wide assortment of hard and soft
goods. Specialty retailers, on the other hand, focused on a fairly
narrow range of goods such as office products or sporting goods.
Specialty discount retailers such as Office Depot, Home Depot,
Staples, Best Buy, and Lowe’s began to enjoy widespread success
in the 1980s. One result of the emergence of both general and
specialty discount retailers was the decline of some of the best-
known traditional retailers. Moderate-priced general retailers such as
Sears and JC Penney had seen their market share decline in
response to the rise of discount stores.


Value in the industry was not precisely defined, but involved price,
service, quality, and convenience. One example of this value
orientation was in apparel. Consumers who once shunned the
private-label clothing lines found in discount stores as a source of
stigma were increasingly buying labels offered by Kmart, Target, and
Walmart. According to one estimate, discount stores were enjoying
double-digit growth in apparel while clothing sales in department
stores had decreased since the 1990s.


Another aspect of consumers’ concern for value involved price.
Retail consumers were less reliant on established brand names in a
wide variety of goods and showed a greater willingness to purchase
the private-label brands of firms such as JC Penney, Sears, Kmart,
and Walmart. Convenience had also taken on greater importance for
customers. As demographics shifted to include more working
mothers and longer workweeks, many American workers placed a
greater emphasis on fast, efficient shopping trips. More consumers
desired “one-stop shopping,” where a broad range of goods were
available in one store to minimize the time they spent shopping. This
trend accelerated in the previous decade with the spread of
supercenters. Supercenters, which combined traditional discount
retail stores with supermarkets under one roof, grew to more than
$100 billion in sales by 2001 and blurred some of the traditional lines
in retailing.


Larger firms had an advantage in discount retailing. Large size
enabled firms to spread their overhead costs over more stores.
Larger firms were also able to distribute their advertising costs over a
broader base. Perhaps the greatest advantage of size, however, was
in relationships with suppliers. Increased size led to savings in
negotiating price reductions, but it also helped in other important
ways. Suppliers were more likely to engage in arrangements with
large store chains such as cooperative advertising and electronic
data interchange (EDI) links.

The Internet posed an increasing threat to discount retailers as more
people became comfortable with shopping online. Internet shopping
was appealing because of the convenience and selection available,
but perhaps the most attractive aspect was the competitive pricing.
Some Internet retailers were able to offer steep discounts because of
lower overhead costs. Additionally, customers were able to quickly
compare prices between different Internet retailers. Most, if not all,
major retailers sold goods via the Internet.


Large discount retailers such as Walmart derived considerable
purchasing clout with suppliers because of their immense size. Even
many of the company’s largest suppliers gained a high proportion of
their sales from Walmart (see Exhibit 4 ). Suppliers with more than
$1 billion in sales such as Newell, Fruit of the Loom, Sunbeam, and
Fieldcrest Cannon received more than 15 percent of their sales from
Walmart. Many of these large manufacturers also sold a substantial
proportion of their output to Kmart, Target, and other discount
retailers. Walmart’s purchasing clout was considerable, though, even
compared to other large retailers. For example, Walmart accounted
for more than 24 percent of Dial’s sales, and it was estimated that it
would have to double sales to its next seven largest customers to
replace the sales made to Walmart.5 Frequently, smaller
manufacturers were even more reliant on the large discount retailers
such as Walmart. For example, Walmart accounted for as much as
50 percent of revenues for many smaller suppliers.


Exhibit 4 Proportion of Sales That Suppliers Receive from
Walmart
Source: Hopkins, J. (2003). “Wal-Mart’s influence grows.” USA Today, Jan. 21.
Private-label goods offered by discount stores had become much
more important in recent years and presented new challenges in
supplier relationships. Managing private labels required a high level
of coordination between designers and manufacturers (who were
often foreign). Investment in systems that could track production and
inventory was also necessary.

Technology investments in sophisticated inventory management
systems, state-of-the-art distribution centers, and other aspects of
logistics were seen as critically important for all discount retailers.
Discount retailers were spending large sums of money on computer
and telecommunications technology in order to lower their costs in
these areas. The widespread use of Universal Product Codes
(UPCs.) allowed retailers to more accurately track inventories for
shopkeeping units (SKUs) and better match inventory to demand.
Discount retailers also used EDI to shorten the distribution cycle. EDI
involved the electronic transmission of sales and inventory data from
the registers and computers of discounters directly to suppliers’
computers. Often, replenishment of inventories was triggered without
human intervention. Thus, EDI removed the need for several
intermediate steps in procurement such as data entry by the
discounter, ordering by purchasers, data entry by the supplier, and
even some production scheduling by supplier managers. Walmart
was also pushing the adoption of radio frequency identification
(RFID), a new technology for tracking and identifying products. RFID
promised to eliminate the need for employees to scan UPC codes
and would also dramatically reduce shrinkage, another term for
shoplifting and employee pilferage. The implementation of RFID had
not materialized in the way Walmart had envisioned and, by 2013,
was still evolving in ways not forecasted by the company.

Another important aspect of managing inventory was accurate
forecasting. Having the right quantity of products in the correct stores
was essential to success. Stories of retailers having an abundance
of snow sleds in Florida stores while stores in other areas with heavy
snowfall had none were common examples of the challenges in
managing inventory. Discounters used variables such as past store
sales, the presence of competition, variation in seasonal demand,
and year-to-year calendar changes to arrive at their forecasts.

Point-of-sale (POS) scanning enabled retailers to gain information
for any purchase on the dollar amount of the purchase, category of
merchandise, color, vendor, and SKU number. POS scanning, while
valuable in managing inventory, was also seen as a potentially
significant marketing tool. Databases of such information offered
retailers the potential to “micromarket” to their customers. Upscale
department stores had used the POS database marketing more
extensively than discounters. Walmart, however, had used such
information extensively. For example, POS data showed that
customers who purchased children’s videos typically bought more
than one. Based on this finding, Walmart emphasized placing other
children’s videos near displays of hot-selling videos.
Competitors
Competition in discount retailing came from both general and
specialty discount stores. Among the general discount retailers,
Walmart was the largest, followed by Target and Kmart. Kmart had
approximately 10 times more sales than the next largest retailers,
Dollar General and ShopKo. The most formidable specialty discount
retailers included office supply chains such as Office Depot with
more than $10 billion in sales, Staples with approximately $24 billion,
Toys “R” Us with more than $11 billion, and Best Buy in electronics
with approximately $45 billion. In warehouse clubs, Costco and
Sam’s Club dominated. Costco was the leader with more than $99
billion in sales, followed by Sam’s Club with $56 billion in revenue.
BJ’s Wholesale Club followed far behind with around $11 billion in
sales before being acquired by a private equity firm in 2011.


Once, Walmart’s largest competitor, Kmart, had experienced a long
slide in performance. Kmart operated approximately 1,300 stores,
about the same number it had had three years previously.
Traditionally, Kmart’s discount philosophy had differed from
Walmart’s. Kmart discount centers sought to price close to, but not
necessarily lower than, Walmart’s everyday low prices (EDLP). More
emphasis was placed on sale items at Kmart. Pricing strategy
revolved around several key items that were advertised in Kmart’s
73 million advertising circulars distributed in newspapers each
Sunday. These items were priced sharply lower than competitors’
prices. The effective implementation of this strategy had been
impeded by Kmart’s difficulty in keeping shelves stocked with sale
items and by Walmart’s willingness to match Kmart’s sale prices. An
attempt to imitate Walmart’s everyday low pricing strategy failed to
deliver sales growth; at the same time, it squeezed margins, so
Kmart returned to its traditional pricing strategy in 2003.


Kmart sought to follow Walmart’s pattern in many of its activities. The
company expressed a commitment to building a strong culture that
emphasized performance, teamwork, and respect for individuals
who, borrowing from Walmart, were referred to as associates.
Establishing such a culture was particularly challenging in the midst
of workforce reductions that had taken Kmart from 373,000
employees in 1990 to 307,000 at the end of 1995, and then an even
more precipitous drop to 158,000 in 2004.


Target, Walmart’s other large national competitor, was owned by
Target Corporation, formerly Dayton Hudson Corporation, based in
Minneapolis, Minnesota. In 2013, Target operated 1,763 stores,
which was an increase of only 11 stores from three years earlier.
This accounted for $65.4 billion in sales and $2.5 billion in profits.
Target was considered an “upscale discounter.” The median income
of Target shoppers, at $64,000, was considerably higher than its two
main competitors, and 50 percent of its customers had completed
college.7 Target attracted a more affluent clientele through a more
trendy and upscale product mix and through a store ambience that
differed from most discounters in aspects such as wider aisles and
brighter lighting. The company also emphasized design much more
in its products and had partnered with a number of designers to
develop products across a broad range of apparel and housewares.
Target had also introduced a proprietary credit card, the Target
Guest Card, to differentiate it from other discounters. The
conventional wisdom in the industry suggested that pricing at Target
was generally not as low as Walmart but was lower than middle-
market department stores such as JC Penney and Mervyn’s. As with
Walmart and Kmart, supercenters were also high on Target’s list of
strategic priorities. The supercenters, named Super Targets, had
opened in many cities, and the company planned to aggressively
grow in this area. Promotions were an important part of Target’s
marketing approach. Each week, more than 100 million Target
advertising circulars were distributed in Sunday newspapers. Holiday
promotions were also emphasized at Target. Like Kmart, Target had
traditionally focused much of its effort on metropolitan areas. Enticed
by the growth of large cities relative to suburbs, Target introduced a
new downsized format in Chicago in 2012 and planned several other
such stores dubbed City for San Francisco, Seattle, and other large
cities. Target’s philanthropic activities were well known. Each year,
the company gave five percent of its pre-tax earnings to not-for-profit
organizations—St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital and local
schools were perhaps Target’s highest philanthropic priorities.

While Target had been an increasingly formidable competitor, many
believed that the greatest competitive threat to Walmart came from a
firm with no bricks and mortar stores: Amazon.com. Amazon began
in 1994 as an online bookseller. Before long, Amazon offered other
media products such as music CDs, movies (VHS and DVD),
software, and video games. By 2013, with sales of $61 billion (in
contrast, Walmart’s online sales were $7.7 billion), Amazon
emphasized price, selection, and convenience and sold a wide
diversity of products including perhaps anything that could be
purchased at a traditional discount retailer along with a seemingly
inexhaustible array of products that could be purchased at the most
specialized retailers. In the typical Amazon model, customers
selected and purchased items online. Through technology, the
company then located the product in large warehouses known as
fulfillment centers. The product was then processed and sent to the
customer via a third party such as UPS or FedEx. Amazon had
invested heavily in its fulfillment capability. By 2013, it had about 35
large fulfillment centers spread throughout the United States with
another 25 in Europe and 13 in Asia. For a flat annual fee of $79,
customers could receive free two-day shipping and discounted one-
day shipping rates on eligible products. Additionally, the company
had made very visible moves into technology with its own line of
Kindle readers and tablets. Its Prime Instant Video, with over 38,000
movies and TV episodes, competed against online firms such as
Netflix and Hulu in the online distribution of media content.


Amazon also hosted a large number of third-party sellers. Customers
could view products sold by these sellers, purchase the product
through Amazon, and then the seller would ship to the customer.
Amazon had begun giving these third-party sellers the option of
warehousing their inventory in Amazon’s fulfillment network.


Amazon could claim multiple advantages over bricks and mortar
retailers. The firm did not have to deal with the extensive overhead
involved with traditional stores. Its selection of products was vastly
wider than that available in any traditional store. Yet another
advantage for Amazon was that customers did not have to pay a
state sales tax on many products purchased. For many shoppers,
the convenience of shopping online was appealing. Like Walmart,
Amazon employed an everyday low pricing strategy. There were
some disadvantages to online shopping. Customers typically had to
pay shipping costs and wait for products to be shipped. Amazon
Prime negated the cost problem and limited the wait time as well.
Online sales of consumer products were growing by as much as 20
percent a year. Brick and mortar stores such as Walmart, Best Buy,
Macy’s, and others were trying to close the online gap with Amazon
by embracing what some described as omni-channel fulfillment or
ship-from-store. In the omni-channel model, retailers would route the
fulfillment of online orders through retail stores near the customer.
Though promising, the omni-channel model required sophisticated
technology to locate products and reliable execution from local
stores in fulfilling orders, a capability generally found more in
warehouses than retail outlets.


Amazon’s performance offered some indication of the rapid growth in
the online sale of consumer products. The company went from $24.5
billion in sales in 2009 to $34.2 billion in 2010, to $48 billion in 2011,
to $61 billion in 2012. Amazon was renowned for its long-term
perspective. It had clearly traded short-term profits in favor of
investing in technology and infrastructure intended to help it achieve
dominance in online retailing. Walmart had not been blind to the rise
and importance of online retailing generally and, more specifically,
the threat from Amazon. From the early days of online commerce, it
had sought to build a strong position in online commerce yet lagged
dramatically behind Amazon in 2013.
Walmart’s History
Walmart was started in 1962 by Sam Walton. The discount retail
industry was then in its infancy.

Of the four new ventures in discount retailing started that year,
Walmart seemed the least likely to succeed. Most Walmart stores
were in northwestern Arkansas and adjacent areas of Oklahoma,
Missouri, and Kansas. Walton had started his retailing career with
Ben Franklin in small towns because his wife Helen did not want to
live in any city with a population of more than 10,000 people. He had
chosen northwestern Arkansas as a base because it allowed him to
take advantage of the quail-hunting season in four states. Walmart
was, in Sam Walton’s words, “underfinanced and undercapitalized”8
in the beginning. Nevertheless, Walton sought to grow Walmart as
fast as he could, because he feared new competitors would preempt
growth opportunities if Walmart did not open stores in new towns.
After five years, Walmart had 19 stores and sales of $9 million. In
contrast, Kmart had 250 stores and $800 million in sales.


Walton retained many of the practices regarding customer service
and satisfaction that he had learned in the variety stores business.
The central focus of Walmart, however, was on price. Walton sought
to make Walmart the low-priced provider of any product it sold. As
Walton said,
  What we were obsessed with was keeping our prices below everybody else’s. Our
  dedication to that idea was total. Everybody worked like crazy to keep the expenses
  down. We didn’t have systems. We didn’t have ordering programs. We didn’t have a
  basic merchandise assortment. We certainly didn’t have any sort of computers. In fact,
  when I look at it today, I realize that so much of what we did in the beginning was really
  poorly done. But we managed to sell our merchandise as low as we possibly could and
  that kept us right-side up for the first ten years . . . . The idea was simple: when
  customers thought of Walmart, they should think of low prices and satisfaction
  guaranteed. They could be pretty sure they wouldn’t find it any cheaper anywhere else,
  and if they didn’t like it, they could bring it back.9


The other problem that plagued Walmart in its early years was
finding a way to keep its costs down. Large vendors were reluctant
to call on Walmart and, when they did do business with the company,
they would dictate the price and quantity of what they sold. Walton
described the situation, “I don’t mind saying that we were the victims
of a good bit of arrogance from a lot of vendors in those days. They
didn’t need us, and they acted that way.”10 Another problem that
contributed to high costs was distribution. Distributors did not service
Walmart with the same care that they did its larger competitors.
Walton saw that “the only alternative was to build our own
warehouse so we could buy in volume at attractive prices and store
the merchandise.”11


Walmart increased from 32 stores in 1970 to 859 stores 15 years
later. For much of that time, Walmart retained its small-town focus.
More than half its stores were in towns with populations of less than
25,000. Because of its small-town operations, Walmart was not
highly visible to many others in the retail industry. By 1985, though,
that had changed. Forbes named Sam Walton the richest man in
America. Furthermore, Walmart had begun to expand from its small-
town base in the South and had established a strong presence in
several large cities. By the 1990s, it had spread throughout the
United States in both large cities and small towns.
Walmart in 2013
By the beginning of 2013, Walmart’s activities had spread beyond its
historical roots in domestic discount centers. The number of
domestic discount centers had declined to 561 from a high of 1,995
in 1996. Many discount centers had been converted to supercenters,
which had increased to 3,158 stores. Walmart Supercenters
combined full-line supermarkets and discount centers into one store.
Walmart also operated 620 Sam’s Clubs, which were warehouse
membership clubs. In 1999, Walmart opened its first Neighborhood
Markets, which were supermarkets, and it expanded to 286 in
operation by 2013.
Operations
From its beginning, Walmart had focused on EDLP. EDLP saved on
advertising costs and on labor costs because employees did not
have to rearrange stock before and after sales. The company
changed its traditional slogan, “Always the Lowest Price,” in the
1990s to “Always Low Prices. Always.” In late 2007, Walmart
changed its tagline to “Save Money, Live Better.” Despite the
changes in slogan, however, Walmart continued to price goods lower
than its competitors (see Exhibit 5 ). When faced with a decline in
profits in the late 1990s, Walmart considered raising margins.12
Instead of pricing 7 to 8 percent below competitors, some managers
believed that pricing only about 6 percent below would raise gross
margins without jeopardizing sales. Some managers and board
members, however, were skeptical that price hikes would work at
Walmart. They reasoned that Walmart’s culture and identity were so
closely attached to low prices that broad price increases would clash
with the company’s bedrock beliefs. Another concern was that
competitors might seize any opportunity to narrow the gap with
Walmart. While the reason was unclear, it appeared that some
narrowing on price was occurring by 2008. One study showed that
the price gap between Walmart and Kroger had shrunk to 7.5
percent in 2007 from 15 percent a few years earlier.13 Some analysts
worried that many shoppers would switch to other retailers as the
gap narrowed.
Exhibit 5 Comparison of Prices at Walmart, Kmart, and Target,
Nov. 2013
Walmart’s low prices were at least partly due to its aggressive use of
technology. Walmart had pioneered the use of technology in retail
operations for many years and still possessed significant advantages
over its competitors. It was the leader in forging EDI links with
suppliers. Its Retail Link technology gave over 3,200 vendors POS
data and authorization to replace inventory for more than 3,000
stores.14 Competitors had responded to Walmart’s advantage in
logistics and EDI by forming cooperative exchanges, but despite
their efforts, a large gap remained between Walmart and its
competitors.15 As a result, Walmart possessed a substantial
advantage in information about supply and demand, which reduced
both the number of items that were either overstocked or out of
stock.

Technology was only one area where Walmart exploited advantages
through its relationships with suppliers. Walmart’s clout was clearly
evident in the payment terms it had with its suppliers. Suppliers
frequently offered two percent discounts to customers who paid their
bills within 15 days. Walmart typically paid its bills at close to 30 days
from the time of purchase but still usually received a two percent
discount on the gross amount of an invoice rather than the net
amount.16 Several suppliers had attributed performance problems to
Walmart’s actions. Rubbermaid, for example, experienced higher
raw materials costs in the 1990s that Walmart did not allow it to pass
along in the form of higher prices. At the same time, Walmart gave
more shelf space to Rubbermaid’s lower-cost competitors. As a
result, Rubbermaid’s profits dropped by 30 percent and it was forced
to cut its workforce by more than 1,000 employees.17 Besides
pushing for low prices, the large discounters also required suppliers
to pick up an increasing amount of inventory and merchandising
costs. Walmart required large suppliers such as Procter & Gamble to
place large contingents of employees at its Bentonville, Arkansas,
headquarters in order to service its account.


Although several companies such as Rubbermaid and the pickle
vendor Vlasic had experienced dramatic downfalls largely through
being squeezed by Walmart, other companies suggested that their
relationship with Walmart had made them much more efficient.18
Some critics suggested, however, that these extreme efficiency
pressures had driven many suppliers to move production from the
United States to nations such as China that had much lower wages.
Walmart set standards for all of its suppliers in areas such as child
labor and safety. A 2001 audit, however, revealed that as many as
one-third of Walmart’s international suppliers were in “serious
violation” of the standards.19 Walmart pursued steps to help
suppliers address the violations, but it was unclear how successful
these efforts were.


A Fast Company article on Walmart interviewed several former
suppliers of the company and concluded, “To a person, all those
interviewed credit Walmart with a fundamental integrity in its dealings
that’s unusual in the world of consumer goods, retailing, and
groceries. Walmart does not cheat its suppliers, it keeps its word, it
pays its bills briskly. ‘They are tough people but very honest; they
treat you honestly,’ says Peter Campanella, a former Corning
manager.”20
At the heart of Walmart’s success was its distribution system. To a
large extent, it had been born out of the necessity of servicing so
many stores in small towns while trying to maintain low prices.
Walmart used distribution centers to achieve efficiencies in logistics.
Initially, distribution centers were large facilities—the first were
72,000 square feet—that served 80 to 100 Walmart stores within a
250-mile radius. Newer distribution centers were considerably larger
than the early ones and in some cases served a wider geographical
radius. Walmart had far more distribution centers than any of its
competitors. Cross-docking was a particularly important practice of
these centers.21 In cross-docking, goods were delivered to
distribution centers and often simply loaded from one dock to
another or even from one truck to another without ever sitting in
inventory. Cross-docking reduced Walmart’s cost of sales by 2 to 3
percent compared to competitors. Cross-docking was receiving a
great deal of attention among retailers with most attempting to
implement it for a greater proportion of goods. It was extremely
difficult to manage, however, because of the close coordination and
timing required between the store, manufacturer, and warehouse. As
one supplier noted, “Everyone from the forklift driver on up to me, the
CEO, knew we had to deliver on time. Not 10 minutes late. And not
45 minutes early, either . . . . The message came through clearly:
you have this 30-second delivery window. Either you’re there or
you’re out.”22 Because of the close coordination needed, cross-
docking required an information system that effectively linked stores,
warehouses, and manufacturers. Most major retailers were finding it
difficult to duplicate Walmart’s success at cross-docking.
Walmart’s focus on logistics manifested itself in other ways. Before
2006, the company essentially employed two distribution networks,
one for general merchandise and one for groceries. The company
created High Velocity Distribution Centers in 2006 that distributed
both grocery and general merchandise goods that needed more
frequent replenishment. Walmart’s logistics system also included a
fleet of more than 2,000 company-owned trucks. It was able to
routinely ship goods from distribution centers to stores within 48
hours of receiving an order. Store shelves were replenished twice a
week on average in contrast to the industry average of once every
two weeks.23


Walmart stores typically included many departments in areas such
as soft goods, domestics, hard goods, stationery and candy,
pharmaceuticals, records and electronics, sporting goods, toys,
shoes, and jewelry. The selection of products varied from one region
to another. Department managers and in some cases associates (or
employees) had the authority to change prices in response to
competitors. This was in stark contrast to the traditional practice of
many chains where prices were centrally set at a company’s
headquarters. Walmart’s use of technology was particularly useful in
determining the mix of goods in each store. The company used
historical selling data and complex models that included many
variables such as local demographics to decide what items should
be placed in each store.


Unlike many of its competitors, Walmart had no regional offices until
2006. Instead, regional vice presidents maintained their offices at
company headquarters in Bentonville, Arkansas. The absence of
regional offices was estimated to save Walmart as much as one
percent of sales. Regional managers visited stores from Monday to
Thursday of each week. Each Saturday at 7:30 A.M., regional vice
presidents and a few hundred other managers and employees met
with the firm’s top managers to discuss the previous week’s results
and discuss different directions for the next week. Regional
managers then conveyed information from the meeting to managers
in the field via the videoconferencing links that were present in each
store. In 2006, Walmart shifted this policy by requiring many of its 27
regional managers to live in the areas they supervised.


Aside from Walmart’s impact on suppliers, it was frequently criticized
for its employment practices, which critics characterized as being low
in both wages and benefits. Charles Fishman acknowledged that
Walmart saved customers $30 billion on groceries alone and
possibly as much as $150 billion overall when its effect on
competitor pricing was considered, but he estimated that while
Walmart created 125,000 jobs in 2005, it destroyed 127,500.24
Others agreed that Walmart’s employment and supplier practices
resulted in negative externalities on employees, communities, and
taxpayers. Harvard professor Pankaj Ghemawat responded to
Fishman by calculating that—based on Fishman’s numbers—
Walmart created customer savings ranging from $12 million to $60
million for each job lost.25 He also argued that, because Walmart
operated more heavily in lower-income areas of the poorest one-
third of the United States, low-income customers were much more
likely to benefit from Walmart’s lower prices. Another criticism of
Walmart was that it consistently drove small local retailers out of
business when it introduced new stores in small towns and that
employees in such rural areas were increasingly at the mercy of
Walmart, essentially redistributing wealth from these areas to
Bentonville. Jack and Suzy Welch defended Walmart by pointing out
that employees in these areas were better off after a Walmart
opened:

  In most small towns the storeowner drove the best car, lived in the fanciest house, and
  belonged to the country club. Meanwhile, employees weren’t exactly sharing the wealth.
  They rarely had life insurance or health benefits and certainly did not receive much in
  the way of training or big salaries. And few of these storeowners had plans for growth or
  expansion. . . a killer for employees seeking life-changing careers.26
Sam’s Club
A notable exception to Walmart’s dominance in discount retailing
was in the warehouse club segment. Despite significant efforts by
Walmart’s Sam’s Club, Costco was the established leader. Sam’s
Club had almost exactly the same number of stores as Costco—620
to 622—yet, Costco still reported almost twice the sales—$105
billion versus $54 billion for Sam’s. Costco stores averaged
considerably more revenue per store than Sam’s Club (see Exhibit
6   ).


Exhibit 6 Costco Versus Sam’s Club
To the casual observer, Costco and Sam’s Clubs appeared to be
very similar. Both charged small membership fees, and both were
“warehouse” stores that sold goods from pallets. The goods were
often packaged or bundled into larger quantities than typical retailers
offered. Beneath these similarities, however, were important
differences. Costco focused on more upscale small business owners
and consumers while Sam’s, following Walmart’s pattern, had
positioned itself more to the mass middle market. Relative to Costco,
Sam’s was also concentrated more in smaller cities.


Consistent with its more upscale strategy, Costco stocked more
luxury and premium-branded items than Sam’s Club had traditionally
done. This changed somewhat when Sam’s began to stock more
high-end merchandise after the 1990s, but some questioned whether
or not its typical customers demanded such items. Despite the focus
on pricier goods, Costco still focused intensely on managing costs
and keeping prices down. Costco set a goal of 10 percent margins
and capped markups at 14 percent (compared with the usual 40
percent markup by department stores). Managers were discouraged
from exceeding the margin goals.


Some analysts claimed that Sam’s Club’s lackluster performance
was a result of a copycat strategy. Costco was the first of the two
competitors to sell fresh meat, produce, and gasoline and to
introduce a premium private label for many goods. In each case,
Sam’s followed suit two to four years later.
  “By looking at what Costco did and trying to emulate it, Sam’s didn’t carve out its own
  unique strategy,” says Michael Clayman, editor of the trade newsletter Warehouse Club
  Focus. And at least one of the “me too” moves made things worse. Soon after Costco
  and Price Club merged in 1993, Sam’s bulked up by purchasing Pace warehouse clubs
  from Kmart. Many of the 91 stores were marginal operations in marginal locations.
  Analysts say that Sam’s Club management became distracted as it tried to integrate the
  Pace stores into its system.27


To close the gap against Costco, Walmart in 2003 started to
integrate the activities of Sam’s Club and Walmart more. Buyers for
the two coordinated their efforts to get better prices from suppliers.
Culture
Perhaps the most distinctive aspect of Walmart was its culture. To a
large extent, Walmart’s culture was an extension of Sam Walton’s
philosophy and was rooted in the early experiences and practices of
Walmart. The Walmart culture emphasized values such as
thriftiness, hard work, innovation, and continuous improvement. As
Walton wrote,

  Because wherever we’ve been, we’ve always tried to instill in our folks the idea that we
  at Walmart have our own way of doing things. It may be different and it may take some
  folks a while to adjust to it at first. But it’s straight and honest and basically pretty simple
  to figure it out if you want to. And whether or not other folks want to accommodate us,
  we pretty much stick to what we believe in because it’s proven to be very, very
  successful.28


Walmart’s thriftiness was consistent with its obsession with
controlling costs. One observer joked that, “the Walmart folks stay at
Mo 3, where they don’t even leave the light on for you.”29 This was
not, however, far from the truth. Walton told of early buying trips to
New York where several Walmart managers shared the same hotel
room and walked everywhere they went rather than use taxis. One of
the early managers described how these early trips taught managers
to work hard and keep costs low:
  From the very beginning, Sam was always trying to instill in us that you just didn’t go to
  New York and roll with the flow. We always walked everywhere. We never took cabs.
  And Sam had an equation for the trips: expenses should never exceed one percent of
  our purchases, so we would all crowd in these little hotel rooms somewhere down
  around Madison Square Garden. . . . We never finished up until about twelve-thirty at
  night, and we’d all go out for a beer except Mr. Walton. He’d say, “I’ll meet you at
  breakfast at six o’clock.” And we’d say, “Mr. Walton, there’s no reason to meet that early.
  We can’t even get into the buildings that early.” And he’d just say, “We’ll find something
  to do.”30


The roots of Walmart’s emphasis on innovation and continuous
improvement can also be seen in Walton’s example.

Walton emphasized always looking for ways to improve. Walmart
managers were encouraged to critique their own operations.
Managers met regularly to discuss their store operations. Lessons
learned in one store were quickly spread to other stores. Walmart
managers also carefully analyzed the activities of their competitors
and tried to borrow practices that worked well. Walton stressed the
importance of observing what other firms did well rather than what
they did wrong. Another way in which Walmart had focused on
improvement from its earliest days was in information and
measurement. Long before Walmart had any computers, Walton
would personally enter measures on several variables for each store
into a ledger he carried with him. Information technology enabled
Walmart to extend this emphasis on information and measurement.
International Operations
Walmart’s entry into the international retail arena had been
somewhat recent. As late as 1992, Walmart’s entire international
operations consisted of only 162,535 square feet of retail space in
Mexico. By 2013, however, international sales contributed nearly 30
percent of the company’s sales. With growth rates of 7.4 percent in
sales and 8.3 percent in operating income, Walmart’s international
growth exceeded that of its domestic operations. Although it was the
company’s fastest-growing division—going from about $59 billion in
sales in 2006 to more than $135 billion in 2013—Walmart’s
performance in international markets had been mixed, or as Forbes
put it, “Overseas, Walmart has won some—and lost a lot.”31 Only a
few years earlier, more than 80 percent of Walmart’s international
revenue came from only three countries: Canada, Mexico, and the
United Kingdom.


Walmart had tried a variety of approaches and faced a diverse set of
challenges in the different countries it entered. Entry into
international markets had ranged from greenfield development to
franchising, joint ventures, and acquisitions. Each country that
Walmart had entered had presented new and unique challenges. In
China, Walmart had to deal with a backward supply chain. In Japan,
it had to negotiate an environment that was hostile to large chains
and protective of its small retailers. Strong foreign competitors were
the problem in Brazil and Argentina. Labor unions had plagued
Walmart’s entry into Germany along with unforeseen difficulties in
integrating acquisitions. Mistakes in choosing store locations had
hampered the company in South Korea and Hong Kong.

Walmart approached international operations with much the same
philosophy it had used in the United States. “We’re still very young at
this, we’re still learning,”32 stated John Menzer, former chief
executive of Walmart International. Menzer’s approach was to have
country presidents make decisions. His thinking was that it would
facilitate the faster implementation of decisions. Each country
president made decisions regarding his or her own sourcing,
merchandising, and real estate. Menzer concluded, “Over time all
you really have is speed. I think that’s our most important asset.”33


In most countries, entrenched competitors responded vigorously to
Walmart’s entry. For example, Tesco, the United Kingdom’s biggest
grocer, responded by opening supercenters. In China, Lianhua, and
Huilan, the two largest retailers, merged in 2003 into one state-
owned entity named the Bailan Group. Walmart was also not alone
among major international retailers in seeking new growth in South
America and Asia. One international competitor, the French retailer
Carrefour, was already the leading retailer in Brazil and Argentina.
Carrefour expanded into China in the late 1990s with a hypermarket
in Shanghai. In Asia, Makro, a Dutch wholesale club retailer, was the
regional leader. Both of the European firms were viewed as able,
experienced competitors. The Japanese retailer, Yaohan, moved its
headquarters from Tokyo to Hong Kong with the aim of becoming the
world’s largest retailer. Helped by the close relationship between
Chairman Kazuo Wada and Mao’s successor Deng Xiaoping,
Yaohan was the first foreign retail firm to receive a license to operate
in China and planned to open more than 1,000 stores there. Like
Walmart, these international firms were motivated to expand
internationally by slowing down growth in their own domestic
markets. Some analysts feared that the pace of expansion by these
major retailers was faster than the rate of growth in the market and
could result in a price war. Like Walmart, these competitors had also
found difficulty in moving into international markets and adapting to
local differences. Both Carrefour and Makro had experienced visible
failures in their international efforts. Folkert Schukken, chairman of
Makro, noted this challenge, “We have trouble selling the same toilet
paper in Belgium and Holland.” The chairman of Carrefour, Daniel
Bernard, agreed, “If people think that going international is a solution
to their problems at home, they will learn by spilling their blood.
Global retailing demands a huge investment and gives no guarantee
of a return.”34


Walmart sought aggressive growth in its international operations.
The company added 497 units during 2013. Walmart’s early activities
in a country typically involved acquisitions, but it had emphasized
organic growth more in recent years.
Looking Ahead
Walmart CEO Doug McMillon faced the daunting challenge of
achieving the company’s accustomed growth rates despite its
enormous size. A five percent organic growth rate would require the
firm to add the equivalent of a firm ranking 129th in the Fortune 500
each year. To put that into perspective, the company’s growth in
revenues would need to nearly equal the total sales of Nike and
exceed the sales of companies as large as Xerox and Kimberly
Clark. What strategic priorities would allow Walmart to achieve that
amount of growth? Or would the company need to adjust its
aspirations?
End Notes
1    Standard and Poor’s Industry Surveys. Retailing, February 1998.
2    Upbin, B. “Wall-to-wall Wal-Mart.” Forbes, April 12, 2004.
3    Nordlinger, J. (2004). “The new colossus: Wal-Mart is America’s store, and the world’s
and its enemies are sadly behind.” National Review, April 19, 2004.
4    Ibid.
5    Fishman, C. (2003). “The Wal-Mart you don’t know.” Fast Company, December 2003.
6    Berner, R. (2004). “The next Warren Buffett?” BusinessWeek, November 22, 2004.
7    Standard and Poor’s Industry Surveys. (1998). Retailing: General, February 5, 1998.
8    Walton, S. (with J. Huey). (1993). Sam Walton: Made in America. New York:
Doubleday, p. 63.
9    Ibid., pp. 64–65. 10. Ibid., p. 66.
10       Ibid., p. 66.
11       (1982). Forbes, August 16, p. 43.
12       Pulliam, S. (1996). “Wal-Mart considers raising prices, drawing praise from analysts,
but concern from board.” Wall Street Journal, March 8, 1996, p. C2.
13       Bianco, A. (2007). “Wal-Mart’s midlife crisis.” BusinessWeek, April 30, 2007.
14       Standard and Poor ‘s Industry Surveys. (1998). Retailing: General, February 5, 1998.
15       Useem, J. (2003). “America’s most admired companies.” Fortune, February 18, 2003.
16       Schifrin, M. (1996). “The big squeeze.” Forbes, March 11, 1996.
17       Ibid.
18       Fishman, C. (2003). “The Wal-Mart you don’t know.” Fast Company, December 2003.
19       Walmart website.
20       Fishman, C. (2003). “The Wal-Mart you don’t know.” Fast Company, December 2003,
p. 73.
21       Stalk, G., P. Evans, and L. E. Schulman. (1992). “Competing on capabilities: The new
rules of corporate strategy.” Harvard Business Review, March/April 1992, pp. 57–58.
22       Fishman, C. (2003). “The Wal-Mart you don’t know.” Fast Company, December 2003,
p. 73.
23    Stalk G., P. Evans, and L. E. Schulman. (1992). “Competing on capabilities: The new
rules of corporate strategy.” Harvard Business Review, March/April 1992, pp. 57–58.
24    Fishman, C. (2006). “Wal-Mart and the decent society: Who knew that shopping was
so important.” Academy of Management Perspectives, August 2006.
25    Ghemawat, P. (2006). “Business, society, and the ‘Wal-Mart effect.” Academy of
Management Perspectives, August 2006.
26    Welch, J., and S. Welch. (2006). “What’s right about Wal-Mart.” BusinessWeek, May
1, 2006, p. 112.
27    Helyar, J. (2003). “The only company Wal-Mart fears.” Fortune, November 24, 2003,
p. 158.
28    Walton, S. (with J. Huey). (1993). Sam Walton: Made in America. New York:
Doubleday, p. 85.
29    Loeb, M. (1994). “Editor’s desk: The secret of two successes.” Fortune, May 2, 1994.
30    Walton, S. (with J. Huey). (1993). Sam Walton: Made in America. New York:
Doubleday, p. 84.
31    Upbin, B. (2004). “Wall-to-wall Wal-Mart.” Forbes, April 12, 2004.
32    Ibid.
33    Ibid.
34    Rapoport, C. (1995). “Retailers go global.” Fortune, February 20, 1995.
Case 1–4: Harlequin Enterprises:
The Mira Decision*1

*
    Ken Mark prepared this case under the supervision of Professors Rod White and Mary
Crossan solely to provide material for class discussion. The authors do not intend to
illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of a managerial situation. The authors may
have disguised certain names and other identifying information to protect confidentiality.
Ivey Management Services prohibits any form of reproduction, storage or transmittal without
its written permission. This material is not covered under authorization from CanCopy or
any reproduction rights organization. To order copies or request permission to reproduce
materials, contact Ivey Publishing, Ivey Management Services, c/o Richard Ivey School of
Business, The University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada, N6A 3K7; phone
(519) 661-3208; fax (519) 661-3882; e-mail cases@ivey.uwo.ca. One-time permission to
reproduce granted by Ivey Management Services on February 9, 2007.
During June 1993, Harlequin management was
deciding whether or not to launch MIRA, a new
line of single-title women’s fiction novels. With
the increased popularity of single-title women’s
fiction, Harlequin’s leading position as the
world’s largest romance publisher was being
threatened. While Harlequin was the dominant
and very profitable producer of series romance
novels, research indicated that many customers
were reading as many single-title romance and
women’s fiction books as series romances.
Facing a steady loss of share in a growing total
women’s fiction market, Harlequin convened a
task force in December 1992 to study the
possibility of relaunching a single-title women’s
fiction program. Donna Hayes, vice-president of
direct marketing, stated:
  Industry trends reveal that demand for single-title women’s fiction continues to grow
  while demand for series romance remains stable. Our strengths lie in series
  romance . . . by any account, launching MIRA (single-title) will still be a challenge for us.
  How do we successfully launch a single-title women’s fiction program?


Tentatively named “MIRA,” Harlequin’s proposed single-title program
would focus exclusively on women’s fiction. Management hoped
MIRA’s launch would provide the opportunity to continue Harlequin’s
history of strong revenue growth.

Hayes, leader of the MIRA team, knew this was a significant decision
for Harlequin. Several years earlier an attempt at single-title
publishing—Worldwide Library—had failed. Before going to her
executive group for approval, Hayes thought about the decisions the
company faced if it wished to enter single-title women’s fiction
publishing: What were the growth and profitability implications if
Harlequin broadened its scope from series romance to single-title
women’s fiction? What fundamental changes would have to be made
to Harlequin’s current business model? Did the company have the
necessary resources and capabilities to succeed in this new arena?
If the company proceeds, how should it go about launching MIRA?
The Publishing Industry2
Apart from educational material, traditional single-title book
publishing was typically a high-risk venture. Each book was a new
product with all the risks attendant on any new product introduction.
The risks varied with the author’s reputation, the subject matter, and
thus the predictability of the market’s response. Among the
numerous decisions facing the publisher were selecting manuscripts
out of the thousands submitted each year, deciding how many
copies to print, and deciding how to promote the book.

Insiders judged one key to success in publishing was the creative
genius needed to identify good young authors among the hundreds
of would-be writers, and then publish and develop them through their
careers. Years ago, Sol Stein of Stein and Day Publishers had
commented, “Most successful publishers are creative editors at heart
and contribute more than risk capital and marketing expertise to the
books they publish. If a publisher does not add value to what he
publishes, he’s a printer, not a publisher.”


Traditional single-title publishers allowed distributors 50 percent
margins (from which the retailer’s margin would come).3 Some other
typical costs included royalty payments of more than 12 percent,
warehouse and handling costs of 4 percent, and selling expenses at
5.5 percent. Advertising generally required 6 percent and printing
costs4 required another 12 percent. The remainder was earnings
before indirect overhead. Typically, indirect overhead accounted for
two percent of the retail price of a book. Because of author
advances, pre-publication, promotion, and fixed costs of printing,
break-even volumes were significant. And if the publisher failed to
sell enough books, the losses could be substantial. Harlequin’s core
business, series romance fiction, was significantly different from
traditional single-title publishing.
Harlequin Enterprises Limited
The word romance and the name Harlequin had become
synonymous over the last half-century. Founded in 1949, Harlequin
began applying its revolutionary approach to publishing—a
packaged, consumer-goods strategy—in 1968 shortly after acquiring
the publishing business of U.K.-based Mills & Boon. Each book was
part of an identifiable product line, consistently delivering the
expected benefit to the consumer. With a growth rate of 25 percent
per year during the 1970s, Harlequin became the world’s largest
publisher of women’s series romance fiction. It was during this time
that Torstar, a newspaper publisher, acquired all of Harlequin
Enterprises Ltd.

Over the years, many book publishers had attempted to enter
Harlequin’s segment of the industry. All had eventually withdrawn.
Only once had Harlequin’s dominance in series romance fiction been
seriously challenged. The “romance wars” began in 1980 when
Harlequin took over U.S. distribution of its series products from
Simon & Schuster (S&S), a large single-title publisher with
established paperback distribution. Subsequently, S&S began
publishing series romance fiction under the Silhouette imprint. After
several years, a truce was negotiated between Harlequin and S&S.
Harlequin acquired Silhouette, S&S’s series romance business, and
S&S got a 20-year deal as Harlequin’s sole U.S. distributor for series
fiction.
During the late 1980s and early 1990s, growth in the series market
slowed. Harlequin was able to maintain revenues by publishing
longer and more expensive series products and generally raising
prices. However, as shown in Table 1 , global unit volume was no
longer growing.


Table 1 Total Unit Sales (in $000s)
Harlequin’s Target Market and
Products
Harlequin books were sold in more than 100 international markets in
more than 23 languages around the world. Along with romance
fiction, Harlequin participated in the series mystery and male action-
adventure markets under its Worldwide Library and Gold Eagle
imprints. Harlequin had an estimated 20 million readers in North
America and 50 million readers around the world.


With a median age of 41, the Harlequin’s romance series reader was
likely to be married, well-educated, and working outside the home.
More than half of Harlequin readers spent at least three hours
reading per week. Harlequin series readers were brand loyal; a
survey indicated four out of five readers would continue to buy
Harlequin books in the next year. Larry Heisey, Harlequin’s former
chief executive officer and chairman, expanded on the value of
Harlequin’s products; “I think our books are so popular because they
provide relaxation and escape . . . . We get many letters from people
who tell us how much these books mean to them.”


While Harlequin had advertised its series product on television,
current marketing efforts centered on print media. Harlequin
advertised in leading women’s magazines such as Cosmopolitan,
Glamour, Redbook, and Good Housekeeping, and general interest
magazines such as People. The print advertisement usually featured
one of Harlequin’s series products and also promoted the company’s
brands.
Romance Series Product: Well
Defined and Consistent
Under the Harlequin and Silhouette brands, Harlequin published 13
different series with 64 titles each month. Each series was distinctly
positioned, featuring a particular genre (e.g., historical romances) or
level of explicitness. Isabel Swift, editorial director of Silhouette,
described the different types of series books published by Harlequin:

  Our different lines deliver different promises to our readers. For example, Harlequin
  Temptation’s tagline is sassy, sexy, and seductive, promising that each story will deliver
  a sexy, fun, contemporary romance between one man and one woman, whereas the
  Silhouette Romance title, in comparison, is a tender read within a framework of more
  traditional values.


Overall, the product portfolio offered a wide variety of stories to
capture readers’ interests. For the positioning of Harlequin’s series,
see Exhibit 1           . Sold in more than a dozen countries. Harlequin
had the ability to publish series books worldwide. The average retail
price of a Harlequin series novel was $4.40,5 significantly less than
the $7 retail price for the typical single-title paperback novel, and
much less than the $15 to $25 for longer, hardcover titles by best-
selling authors.
Exhibit 1 Harlequin/ Silhouette Series Positioning Scales
Source: Company files.




Harlequin’s series romance product was fundamentally different from
that of traditional single-title publishers: content, length, artwork size,
basic formats, and print were all well-defined to ensure a consistent
product. Each book was not a new product, but rather an addition to
a clearly defined product line. Unlike single-title books, Harlequin’s
series products had a common format. They measured 105
millimeters by 168 millimeters and fit neatly into specially designed
racks located primarily in supermarkets and drugstores. Most
product lines were 192 to 256 pages in length; some were up to 304
pages in length. Cover designs differed slightly by product line and
country, but the look and feel was similar (see Exhibit 2      ).
Exhibit 2 Typical Harlequin Series Romance Products
Source: Company files.




Harlequin provided prospective series romance authors with plot,
style, and book length guidelines. However, crafting the stories still
demanded skill and work. As David Galloway, chief executive officer
of Torstar, Harlequin’s parent company, and the former head of
Harlequin observed:

    The books are quite simply good stories. If they weren’t, we wouldn’t be getting the
    repeat purchases we do. A lot of writers think they can dash off a Harlequin, but they
    can’t. We’ve had submissions from Ph.D.’s in English who can certainly write but they
    can’t tell a story.


To ensure a consistent product emerged, Harlequin’s editors
assessed many elements, including plot, story line, main
character(s), setting, percentage of romance in the plot, level of
realism, level of fantasy, sensuality, social and/or individual
problems, happy ending, and reading impact. Even though many
different authors contributed to series romance, Harlequin’s editors
ensured a consistent finished product, satisfying the needs of their
loyal series romance readers. The consequences of this uniformity
were significant. The reader was buying a Harlequin novel, and
advertising promoted the Harlequin brands rather than a particular
book or author.


Bookstores were not the primary channel for series romance novels.
Most retail purchases were made at supermarkets or drugstores and
increasingly mass merchandisers like Walmart. But many avid
Harlequin readers got the product delivered to their home every
month through Harlequin’s direct mail service. The standardized size
and format made warehousing and distribution more efficient. In
addition, the product’s consistency enabled standing order
distribution to retail. As Pam Laycock, director of new product
development, explained:

  A major contributor to our success as a series publisher is our standing order
  distribution. Each series is distributed to a retail location in a predetermined
  configuration—for example in a series where we publish four titles per month, a retailer
  may take six copies per title and this level of distribution is generally agreed upon and
  maintained for the entire year. This approach enables us to more accurately predict
  monthly print quantities and achieve significant print cost effectiveness.


Orders (and sales) for conventional single-title books were not as
predictable. Another significant difference was that series romance
books were part of Harlequin’s standing order distribution plan. And
more like magazines, they were displayed on retail shelves for four
weeks. Harlequin’s distributors then removed and returned any
unsold books, and replaced them with the next month’s offerings. By
comparison, single-title books were typically displayed at retail from
6 to 12 months or more.


Harlequin’s series romance business did not generate or even
encourage best-sellers. “Best-sellers (in series romance) would ruin
our system,” a Harlequin insider stated. “Our objective is consistency
in volume. We have no winners and no losers.” Unsold books could
be returned to the publisher for credit. A consequence of Harlequin’s
even and predictable sales was that order regulation and returns
could be more easily optimized to maximize the contribution to
profits.


A comparison of Harlequin’s series business model and the
operations of traditional “one-off” publishers is presented in Exhibit
3   .


Exhibit 3 Comparing Harlequin’s Series Business Model and a
Traditional Publisher’s
With a consistent quality product, standing orders, predictable retail
traffic patterns, and the ability to produce and deliver books at low
costs, Harlequin had achieved great success. Harlequin’s series
romance business had consistently earned a return on sales of 15
percent. As shown in Exhibit 4            , this figure compared favorably
with larger traditional publishers.

Exhibit 4 Comparison of Harlequin’s Performance with
Traditional Publishers—1993 (in millions of dollars)


Loriana Sacilotto, director of retail marketing, explained why
Harlequin outperformed other traditional single-title publishers:

  There are a variety of reasons why other publishers do not achieve the same margins
  we enjoy. The main reason is that they are broad in their publishing focus whereas we
  focus on women’s fiction. They don’t have the same reader recognition, trust and
  relationships. We invest in it.
Harlequin Business System
The Global Author/Editor Team

Harlequin had established a strong level of reader trust and brand
equity by consistently delivering quality content. Editors in three
acquisition centers in Toronto, New York, and London were
responsible for working closely with 1,300-plus authors to develop
and publish more than 1,000 new titles annually. In addition to the
work of its regular writers, Harlequin received approximately 30,000
unsolicited manuscripts per year. Typically, about 100 of these were
accepted in any given year.


Series authors received royalties of 13 percent of retail book price.
Harlequin’s typical series authors had more than 100,000 of each of
their books distributed worldwide.


Harlequin’s series romance product focused solely on front-list sales.
In the publishing world, front-list sales refers to the first print runs of
a book supporting its initial market launch. Back-list refers to books
reprinted and reissued years after the book’s initial run (often to
support an author’s subsequent books). Harlequin’s series romance
novels—unlike a traditional publisher’s single-title books—were not
available on back-list. However, Harlequin retained these rights.


Printing was a highly competitive business and Harlequin
subcontracted its requirements. Costs per series book were typically
$0.44 per book compared to the competitors’ average costs of $0.88
per single-title soft cover book.
Distribution, Selling, and Promotion

With its standing orders, Harlequin’s distribution costs per book were
$0.18, with selling expenses at an average of $0.09 per book.
Because it was the dominant player in series romance, Harlequin
had relatively low advertising and promotion costs—about $0.22 per
book.

In Canada, Harlequin had its own distribution. Elsewhere in the
world, independent distributors were employed. In the United States,
Pocketbooks, the sales division of Simon & Schuster, a large
traditional publisher, handled Harlequin’s series romance books.
Supermarkets, drugstores, discount department stores, and mass
merchandisers accounted for 70 percent of North American retail
sales. Specialty big-box bookstores like Barnes and Noble and other
chains and independent bookstores accounted for the remainder of
retail sales. Globally, Harlequin’s products were in over 250,000
retail outlets. Eighty thousand of these outlets were in North
America; almost 50,000 of these were supermarkets and drugstores.
Harlequin’s series products were in 70 percent of supermarkets, but
only 55 percent of bookstores. In Europe, kiosks and tobacconists
accounted for the largest proportion of retail outlets.

The direct channel handled direct-to-reader book sales. Harlequin’s
“Reader Service” book club was an important source of sales and
profits. Investing in advertising to acquire readers, this direct mail
operation offered frequent Harlequin readers the possibility of
purchasing every book the company published, delivered right to
their doorstep. In the United States, six books were sold through the
book club for every 10 sold at retail. Furthermore, a book sold
through the book club yielded Harlequin the full cover price, whereas
a book sold at retail netted the company approximately half the retail
price, and required advertising, distribution costs, and the
acceptance of returns from retailers.
Rise of Single-Title Romance
The proliferation of titles and authors during the “Romance Wars”
had resulted in the emergence of single-titles as a significant factor
in the women’s romance fiction market. Exhibit 5                         provides the
sales breakdown for romance novels.


Exhibit 5 Romance Novel Sales in North America (millions of
units)

In an attempt to capitalize on readers’ growing appetite for single-
titles, Harlequin launched Worldwide Library in 1986, its first single-
title publishing program. This move also gave Harlequin’s more
accomplished series authors another outlet. Laycock commented:

  Several authors who began their writing careers with Harlequin writing series romance
  wanted broader opportunities—opportunities that they saw in the single-title women’s
  fiction publishing arena. Prior to the launch of Worldwide Library, Harlequin didn’t have
  publishing opportunities to meet the desires of these authors. As a result, authors would
  seek out competitive publishers to support their single-title works.


By 1988, Worldwide was shut down as a result of several problems.
“Worldwide could never decide if it was a romance program, a
women’s fiction program, or a general fiction program,” a Harlequin
insider commented. Exhibit 6 illustrates a list of typical titles
published at Worldwide.
Exhibit 6 Range of Worldwide Titles (1987)


With the shutdown of Worldwide Library, popular authors moved to
other publishers. As shown in Exhibit 7 , other publishers
continued to exploit the popularity of single-title romance novels.


Exhibit 7 Monthly Single-Title Romance Output Analysis North
American Market
Eager to find ways to grow its publishing business, Harlequin’s
management reexamined the publishing market. A broader analysis
revealed that although Harlequin’s series romance had captured well
over 80 percent of the North American series romance market by
1990, Harlequin’s estimated share of the North American women’s
fiction market was only about five percent. Table 2 provides a
breakdown of the women’s fiction market.


Table 2 North American Women’s Fiction Market Size Estimate,
1993 (as a percentage of overall segment sizes in US$ millions)


There was substantial overlap in the readership of series romance
fiction and other fiction. Mark Mailman, vice president of market
research and analysis, added:

  One compelling reason to get into single-title publishing is that when we look at our
  research on customers, they’re reading 20 Harlequin books and 20 single-title books
  from other publishers. We have an opportunity to take a greater share of that market.
Harlequin’s Single-Title Task
Force
Faced with slow or no growth in series romance, a Harlequin task
force convened in 1992 to study the feasibility of launching a new
women’s fiction single-title program. To begin, they examined why
Worldwide had failed and concluded that overall lack of success was
attributable to: editorial parameters that were too broad; less than
optimal North American retail distribution; very few Worldwide titles
distributed through the direct-to-reader channel; global support for
the program was not timely and universal; and the selection of
authors and titles was unsuccessful. The task force report stated:

  In the past few years, sell-through efficiencies in the supermarket channels are not as
  great as the sell-through efficiencies in both mass merchandisers and bookstores. The
  more efficient retailer knew that the consumer was spending her discretionary reading
  dollar to buy a diversity of romantic reads, including those that had previously been
  thought of as mainstream.


  Since a single-title strategy requires a single-title solicitation from the sales force and
  more expensive single-title packaging, two of Harlequin’s strategic lynchpins of our
  earlier decades have to be rethought (for single-title): standing order program and same
  format production. However, Harlequin can still capitalize on its global base and its
  ability to distribute widely to points of purchase that women visit on a regular basis.
MIRA Launch Decision
The task force was preparing its recommendation for MIRA,
Harlequin’s proposed women’s fiction single-title program. The
addition of single titles would make a welcome contribution to
overhead costs. Currently, indirect overhead costs per series novel
were $0.09 per book. Because infrastructure was already in place, it
was estimated that MIRA novels would not incur additional indirect
overhead costs. Printing costs for single-titles were expected to be
$0.71 per book (350 pages on average). Estimated advertising and
promotional costs for new single-titles were six percent of (the
higher) retail price.
Author Management
In the single-title market, authors were categorized into three groups,
based on their sales potential: brand new, mid-list, and best-seller
(see Exhibit 8 ). Depending on the author group royalties, sales,
and promotional support varied. Best-selling authors were expected
to sell more than a million books. Publishers were known to sign
established authors for up to a five-book contract with large
multimillion dollar advances. It had not been determined whether
MIRA should follow suit. In addition to author advances, typical
royalties per MIRA-type book were estimated to be 13 percent of the
$6.75 retail price.


Exhibit 8 General Industry Contract Terms for Fiction Category
by Author Group
A Different Format
Women’s fiction books were expected to have many differences from
well-defined series romance books. Unlike series romance, topics
would cover a broader range of segments including general fiction,
science fiction, and mystery. Women’s fiction books would be longer
in length: 100,000 to 400,000 words compared with a series
romance book length of 75,000 words. Naturally, book sizes would
be bigger in terms of page length: from 250 to 400 pages versus a
norm of 192 to 304 pages for series romance.
Distribution
Harlequin had a strong distribution network for its series romances
through supermarkets, drugstores, and discount department stores.
Single-title women’s fiction novels required more mainstream
distribution focusing on retail bookstores. In addition, standing order
distribution, a hallmark of Harlequin’s series romance business
model, would have to be abandoned in favor of relying on orders
generated by the distributor’s sales force for single-titles.

Success in the United States would be key for MIRA, and in this
market, Harlequin relied upon Simon and Schuster’s sales force.
Since S&S was a major single-title publisher, Harlequin did not know
how much support MIRA would be afforded. Harlequin was
considering offering better margins to the distributors than those it
offered for series romance distribution. Expenses for single-title
distribution were expected to be $0.27 per book.


MIRA books would rely more heavily upon distribution through
bookstores when distributed through the same channels as the
series product. Retailers would be encouraged to shelve MIRA
books separately from the series offering. The more intensive selling
effort for single titles would require four percent of the single title
retail price. The new single-title program planned to offer $3.38 in
margin to the distribution channel for single-title books (50 percent of
the typical retail price of $6.75) versus $2.42 for series books (45
percent of the $4.40 suggested retail price).
Acquiring Single-Title Rights
Harlequin subsidiaries in some countries were already buying rights
to publish single titles. By launching MIRA Harlequin could negotiate
better global-author deals. The task force report added, “By
acquiring mainstream titles through a central acquiring office, the
collective clout of Harlequin could create the likelihood of better-
selling mainstream titles marketed by all countries in the global
enterprise.”


Harlequin’s author and editor relationships remained strong, so
much so that many series authors were enthusiastic about
maintaining a long-term relationship with a trusted editor as they
pursued their break-out mainstream book. With MIRA, these authors
could remain loyal to Harlequin.
How Best to Proceed
There were many issues to be resolved prior to any launch of MIRA.
Most pressing was the question of whether Harlequin had the
resources and capabilities to succeed in its new women’s fiction
segment. Certainly there were elements of its series business model
that could be transferred to the broader women’s fiction market. But
what were the gaps? What else did Harlequin need?

Hayes had several options if MIRA was launched. Several
established best-selling authors had begun their writing careers with
Harlequin and had moved on to writing single-title books. These
authors had established reputations. Harlequin could approach one
or more of these authors to sign with MIRA/Harlequin. Such an
arrangement would involve a multi-book contract and substantial
advances. While risky, this approach would ensure that MIRA’s
launch attracted attention.

A different, seemingly less risky alternative was to tap into
Harlequin’s extensive back-list collection and reissue a selection of
novels by current best-selling authors currently signed with rival
single-title publishers. The physical size of the book and page length
could be extended to 250 pages from 192 by adjusting format. In
addition, a new, MIRA-branded cover could be produced to
repackage the books. Coincident with the launch of this back-list,
Harlequin’s editors would cultivate and develop existing series
authors, encouraging them to write single-title books for MIRA.

Returning to the strategic dilemma that Harlequin faced, Swift
commented on the challenge of successfully launching MIRA:

  Our biggest challenge is the requirement to publish on a title-by-title basis. Every new
  book will have to stand on its own, with its own cover, a new marketing plan and
  possibly even an author tour. Can we as a company develop the flexibility to remain
  nimble? How patient should we be in waiting for success? Given Worldwide’s poor
  results, how should we approach this challenge?
End Notes
1.    To protect confidentiality, all financial information within this case study has been
disguised.
2.    This section is adapted from the Richard Ivey School of Business case # 9A87M002.
Harlequin Enterprises Limited—1979, Peter Killing.
3.    All amounts are a percentage of the suggested retail price.
4.    Numbers are for the typical paperback. Hardcover books cost more to produce, but as
a percentage of its higher retail price, printing costs were roughly the same proportion.
5.    All amounts in Canadian dollars unless otherwise specified.
Part 2 Business-Level Strategies
Chapter 4 Cost Leadership
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to:


               4.1 Define business level strategies.
               4.2 Define cost leadership as a business level
               strategy and identify six reasons firms can differ
               in their costs.
               4.3 Describe how cost leadership can create
               economic value for a firm.
               4.4 Identify the bases of cost leadership that are
               more likely to be rare and costly to imitate and
               those that area less likely to be rare and costly to
               imitate.
               4.5 Explain how firms use a functional
               organizational structure, formal and informal
               management controls, and compensation
               policies to implement cost leadership
               strategies.
MyLab Management
  Improve Your Grade!

If your instructor is using MyLab Management, visit
www.pearson.com/mylab/management for
simulations, tutorials, and end-of-chapter problems.
Fashion Eyeglasses—At a
Fraction of the Price
Have you ever lost your eyeglasses—on a plane, on a train,
on the beach? Or broken your eyeglasses and needed to
replace them? Off you go to your local Lens Crafters, Pearle
Vision, Sears Optical, or Target Optical stores only to discover
that it is going to cost you $700 to replace your glasses.

How can this be? After all—the frames are typically made of
plastic, and the lens are either plastic or glass. And while
there is some skill involved in making prescription lens, this
process is becoming progressively more automated. How can
this seemingly simple product cost the same as, say, a new
iPhone?

This is the question that Dave Gilbeau asked just after he lost
his glasses on a flight to Philadelphia to begin business
school. Together with his class mates Neil Blumenthal, Jeffrey
Raider, and Andrew Hart, Dave discovered that the worldwide
eyeglass market was dominated by a single company—the
Italian firm Luxotica. Luxotica owned a variety of popular eye
glass brands--including Ray-Ban, Oakley, Vogue Eyewear,
Persol, Oliver Peoples, and Alain Mikli—produced eyeglasses
under license for some of the most iconic brands of eyewear
in the world—including Armani, Burberry, Bulgari, Channel,
Dolce & Gabbana, Michael Kors, Prada, Ralph Lauren,
Tiffany, Versace, and Valentino—owned major retail
operations around the world—including Lens Crafters, Pearle
Vision (in the U.S.), OPSM and Lens Crafters (in Asia Pacific),
GMO (in Latin America), and Sunglass Hut (worldwide)—and
owned the second largest eye care insurance company in the
United States. It had six design and manufacturing plants in
Italy, three in China, one in Brazil, and a design and
production facility in the United States that specialized in
sports and performance eyewear. In 2015, Luxotica had net
sales of €8.88 billion (up 17% from 2014), operating income of
€1.43 billion (up 16% from 2014), and a market capitalization
of $30 billion.




Rob Wilson/Shutterstock




But, in 2008—the year Dave Gilbeau lost his glasses on the
airplane–Luxotica did not sell eyeglasses on the web. Indeed,
it was widely thought that eyeglasses (or prescription
sunglasses) could not be sold on the web because
consumers wanted to be able to try frames on before they
purchased them. Enter Warby Parker.

In 2008, these four business school classmates put together a
business plan for selling eyeglasses on the web. They named
their company Warby Parker—after two characters in a Jack
Kerouac novel. Their business model was simple: Avoid
costly licenses, deal directly with eye glass manufacturers in
the Far East, charge $95 for glasses that would otherwise
cost $700, and let consumers try frames on at home for free—
free shipping and free returns. After articles in GQ and Vogue
announced a place where designer frames could be
purchased for a fraction of the traditional prices, sales went
through the roof.

By 2016, Warby Parker was selling hundreds of thousands of
eyeglasses a year. It had received over $250 million in
financing, employed 800 people, and had a market
capitalization of $1.2 billion. Of course, that kind of success
has spawned numerous imitators, including Rifet & Sway,
Lookmatic, Classic Specs, and Made Eyewear—all firms that
sell eyewear over the web. But the low-price revolution in
eyewear began when Dave Gilbeau lost his glasses on an
airplane.1
Warby Parker has been able to grow in an
industry that has historically been dominated by
Luxotica. It did this by keeping its costs low and
providing consumers access to stylish
eyeglasses on line at prices considerably lower
than its competitors. This is a classic example of
a low-cost strategy.
What is Business-Level Strategy?
Objective 4.1 Define business level strategies.


Part 1 of this book introduced the basic tools required to conduct
a strategic analysis: tools for analyzing external threats and
opportunities (in Chapter 2 ) and tools for analyzing internal
strengths and weaknesses (in Chapter 3 ). Once these two
analyses have been completed, it is possible to begin making
strategic choices. As explained in Chapter 1 , strategic choices fall
into two large categories: business strategies and corporate
strategies. Business-level strategies are actions firms take to
gain competitive advantages in a single market or industry.
Corporate-level strategies are actions firms take to gain
competitive advantages by operating in multiple markets or
industries simultaneously.

The business-level strategies discussed in this book are cost
leadership (this chapter), product differentiation (Chapter 5 ),
flexibility (Chapter 6 ), and collusion (Chapter 7 ). The
importance of these business-level strategies is so widely
recognized that they are often called generic business
strategies .
What is Cost Leadership?
Objective 4.2 Define cost leadership as a business level strategy
                and identify six reasons firms can differ in their costs.

A firm that chooses a cost leadership business strategy
focuses on gaining advantages by reducing its costs to below those
of all its competitors. This does not mean that this firm abandons
other business or corporate strategies. Indeed, a single-minded
focus on just reducing costs can lead a firm to make low-cost
products that no one wants to buy. Recall that Warby Parker focuses
on keeping its costs (and prices) low, but that it does not abandon
the effort to sell stylish eyeglasses to consumers. That said, a firm
pursuing a cost leadership strategy focuses much of its effort on
keeping its costs low.


Numerous firms besides Warby Parker have pursued cost leadership
strategies. Ryanair follows this strategy in the airline industry, Timex
and Casio in the watch industry, and BIC in the disposable pen and
razor market. All these firms advertise their products. However,
these advertisements tend to emphasize reliability and low prices—
the kinds of product attributes that are usually emphasized by firms
pursuing cost leadership strategies.


In automobiles, Fiat has implemented a cost leadership strategy with
its emphasis on low-priced cars for basic transportation. Like
Ryanair, Timex, Casio, and BIC, Fiat spends a significant amount of
money advertising its products, but its advertisements tend to
emphasize its sporty, sexy styling and low price. Fiat has positioned
its cars as fun and inexpensive, not a high-performance sports car or
a luxurious status symbol. Fiat’s ability to sell these fun and
inexpensive automobiles depends on its design choices (keep it
simple) and its low manufacturing costs.2
Sources of Cost Advantages
An individual firm may have a cost advantage over its competitors for
several reasons. Cost advantages are possible even when
competing firms produce similar products. Some of the most
important of these sources of cost advantage are listed in Table
4.1 and discussed in this section.


Table 4.1 Important Sources of Cost Advantages for Firms
Size Differences and Economies of
Scale
One of the most widely cited sources of cost advantages for a firm is
its size. When there are significant economies of scale in
manufacturing, marketing, distribution, service, or other functions of
a business, larger firms (up to some point) can have a cost
advantage over smaller firms.


The concept of economies of scale was first defined in Chapter 2         .
Economies of scale are said to exist when the increase in firm
size (measured in terms of volume of production) is associated with
lower costs (measured in terms of average costs per unit of
production), as depicted in Figure 4.1 . As the volume of
production in a firm increases, the average cost per unit decreases
until some optimal volume of production (point X) is reached, after
which the average costs per unit of production begins to rise
because of diseconomies of scale        (a concept discussed in more
detail later in this chapter).


If the relationship between volume of production and average costs
per unit of production depicted in Figure 4.1 holds, and if a firm in
an industry has the largest volume of production (but not greater
than the optimal level, X), then that firm will have a cost advantage in
that industry. Increasing the volume of production can reduce a firm’s
costs for several reasons. Some of the most important of these
reasons are summarized in Table 4.2       and discussed in the
following text.
Figure 4.1 Economies of Scale

Table 4.2 Why Higher Volumes of Production in a Firm Can Lead
to Lower Costs
Volume of Production and Specialized
Machines
When a firm has high levels of production, it is often able to
purchase and use specialized manufacturing tools that cannot be
kept in operation in small firms. Manufacturing managers at BIC
Corporation, for example, have emphasized this important
advantage of high volumes of production. A former director of
manufacturing at BIC once observed:

  We are in the automation business. Because of our large volume, one tenth of 1 cent in
  savings turns out to be enormous. . . . One advantage of the high-volume business is
  that you can get the best equipment and amortize it entirely over a short period of time
  (4 to 5 months). I’m always looking for new equipment. If I see a cost-savings machine, I
  can buy it. I’m not constrained by money.3


Only firms with BIC’s level of production in the pen industry can
reduce their costs in this manner.
Volume of Production and the Cost of Plant and
Equipment
High volumes of production may also enable a firm to build larger
manufacturing operations. In some industries, the cost of building
these manufacturing operations per unit of production is lower than
the cost of building smaller manufacturing operations per unit of
production. Thus, large-volume firms, other factors being equal, will
be able to build lower-per-unit-cost manufacturing operations and will
have lower average costs of production.

The link between volume of production and the cost of building
manufacturing operations is particularly important in industries
characterized by process manufacturing         —chemical, oil refining,
paper and pulp manufacturing, and so forth. Because of the physical
geometry of process manufacturing facilities, the costs of
constructing a processing plant with increased capacity can be
expected to rise as the two-thirds power of a plant’s capacity. This is
because the area of the surface of some three-dimensional
containers (such as spheres and cylinders) increases at a slower
rate than the volume of these containers. Thus, larger containers
hold greater volumes and require less material per unit volume for
the outside skins of these containers. Up to some point, increases in
capacity come at a less-than-proportionate rise in the cost of building
this capacity.4


For example, it might cost a firm $100 to build a plant with a capacity
of 1,000 units, for a per-unit average cost of $0.01. But, if the “two-
thirds rule” applies, it might cost a firm $465 to build a plant with a
capacity of 10,000 units (465 = 10,000                 for a per-unit average
                                            2/3
                                                  ),


cost of $0.0046. The difference between $0.01 per unit and $0.0046
per unit represents a cost advantage for a large firm.


Volume of Production and Employee
Specialization
High volumes of production are also associated with high levels of
employee specialization. As workers specialize in accomplishing a
narrow task, they can become more and more efficient at this task,
thereby reducing their firm’s costs. This reasoning applies both in
specialized manufacturing tasks (such as the highly specialized
manufacturing functions in an assembly line) and in specialized
management functions (such as the highly specialized managerial
functions of accounting, finance, and sales).


Smaller firms often do not possess the volume of production needed
to justify this level of employee specialization. With smaller volumes
of production, highly specialized employees may not have enough
work to keep them busy an entire workday. This low volume of
production is one reason why smaller firms often have employees
that perform multiple business functions and often use outside
contract employees and part-time workers to accomplish highly
specialized functions, such as accounting, taxes, and human
resource management.
Volume of Production and Overhead Costs
A firm with high volumes of production has the luxury of spreading its
overhead costs over more units and thereby reducing the overhead
costs per unit. Suppose, in a particular industry, that the operation of
a variety of accounting, control, and research and development
functions, regardless of a firm’s size, is $100,000. Clearly, a firm that
manufactures 1,000 units is imposing a cost of $100 per unit to cover
overhead expenses. However, a firm that manufactures 10,000 units
is imposing a cost of $10 per unit to cover overhead. Again, the
larger-volume firm’s average per-unit costs are lower than the small-
volume firm’s average per-unit cost.
Size Differences and Diseconomies of
Scale
Just as economies of scale can generate cost advantages for larger
firms, important diseconomies of scale can actually increase costs if
firms grow too large. As Figure 4.1 shows, if the volume of
production rises beyond some optimal point (point X in the figure),
this can actually lead to an increase in per-unit costs. If other firms in
an industry have grown beyond the optimal firm size, a smaller firm
(with a level of production closer to the optimal) may obtain a cost
advantage even when all firms in the industry are producing very
similar products. Some important sources of diseconomies of scale
for a firm are listed in Table 4.3 and discussed in this section.
Also, who the economies of scale curve in an industry can be used
to determine the optimal level of production is described in the
Strategy in Depth      feature.


Table 4.3 Major Sources of Diseconomies of Scale
Physical Limits to Efficient Size
Applying the two-thirds rule to the construction of manufacturing
facilities seems to imply, for some industries at least, that larger is
always better. However, there are some important physical
limitations to the size of some manufacturing processes. Engineers
have found, for example, that cement kilns develop unstable internal
aerodynamics at capacities of above 7 million barrels per year.
Others have suggested that scaling up nuclear reactors from small
installations to huge facilities generates forces and physical
processes that, though undetectable in smaller facilities, can become
significant in larger operations. These physical limitations on
manufacturing processes reflect the underlying physics and
engineering in a manufacturing process and suggest when the cost
curve in Figure 4.1     will begin to rise.5
Managerial Diseconomies
Although the underlying physics and engineering in a manufacturing
process have an important impact on a firm’s costs, managerial
diseconomies are perhaps an even more important cause of these
cost increases. As a firm increases in size, it often increases in
complexity, and the ability of managers to control and operate it
efficiently becomes limited.
S T R AT E G Y I N D E P T H



Figure 4.1        implies that in industries characterized by both
economies of scale and diseconomies of scale, that there will
be an optimal level of production. Firms that produce less
than this level will see their costs rise; firms that produce
more than this level will see their costs rise. As presented in
the figure, this optimal level of production appears to be very
narrow. Of course, in real life, a modest range of production
levels may all be consistent with low cost production.
Nevertheless, to the extent that economies and diseconomies
exist, production below or above this range will lead to higher
costs.
Determining the Optimal Level of Production in an
Industry


Given the importance of this inflection point in the economies
of scale curve, determining the value of X can sometimes be
important. This can be done empirically by, first, gathering
data from firms in an industry about their total costs and their
cost drivers. For simplicity, assume that there are only three
important cost drivers in an industry: the quantity produced
(Q), labor wages (w) and capital ( r). A very general cost
function that allows for the possibility of both economies and
diseconomies of scale is called a translog cost function.
This function can be written as:

         Log T C     =   b0    + b1 log Q + b2 log w

                                         2                       2
            + b3 log r + b4 (log Q)          + b5 (log w)

                           2
            + b6 (log r)       + b7 (log w)(log r)


            + b8 (log w)(log Q) + b9 (log r)(log Q)




At first, this looks like a very difficult equation. In fact, it can
be estimated using relatively simple regression techniques,
and the resulting coefficients can be used to determine the
optimal level of production.

To use a very simple example, suppose this functional form
was estimated on a sample of firms, the coefficients were
transformed out of their log form, and the only statistically
significant coefficients were b0    = 200,       and b4   = 5.   This cost
function could then be written as:
                                             2
                          TC=200+5Q



Average costs for this equation can be obtained by dividing
both sides of this equation by Q:

                         AC=200/Q + 5Q




Some simple calculations show that average costs for firms in
this industry fall as Q goes from 1 (AC = 205) to
   6 (AC = 63.3)     and then begin to rise when Q goes to
   7 (AC = 63.57)     So, in this simple example, X=6. 6


One well-known example of a manufacturing plant that grew too
large and thus became inefficient is Crown, Cork and Seal’s can-
manufacturing plant in Philadelphia. Through the early part of this
century, this Philadelphia facility handled as many as 75 different
can-manufacturing lines. The most efficient plants in the industry,
however, were running from 10 to 15 lines simultaneously. The huge
Philadelphia facility was simply too large to operate efficiently and
was characterized by large numbers of breakdowns, a high
percentage of idle lines, and poor-quality products.7
Worker De-Motivation
A third source of diseconomies of scale depends on the relationship
between firm size, employee specialization, and employee
motivation. It has already been suggested that one of the
advantages of increased volumes of production is that it allows
workers to specialize in smaller and more narrowly defined
production tasks. With specialization, workers become more and
more efficient at the particular task facing them.


However, a significant stream of research suggests that these types
of very specialized jobs can be unmotivating for employees. Based
on motivational theories taken from social psychology, this work
suggests that as workers are removed further from the complete
product that is the result of a manufacturing process, the role that a
worker’s job plays in the overall manufacturing process becomes
more and more obscure. As workers become mere, “cogs in a
manufacturing machine,” worker motivation wanes, and productivity
and quality can both suffer.8
Distance to Markets and Suppliers
A final source of diseconomies of scale can be the distance between
a large manufacturing facility and where the goods in question are to
be sold or where essential raw materials are purchased. Any
reductions in cost attributable to the exploitation of economies of
scale in manufacturing may be more than offset by large
transportation costs associated with moving supplies and products to
and from the manufacturing facility. Firms that build highly efficient
plants without recognizing these significant transportation costs may
put themselves at a competitive disadvantage compared to firms
with slightly less-efficient plants that are located closer to suppliers
and key markets.
Experience Differences and Learning-
Curve Economies
A third possible source of cost advantages for firms in a particular
business depends on their different cumulative levels of production.
In some circumstances, firms with the greatest experience in
manufacturing a product or service will have the lowest costs in an
industry and thus will have a cost-based advantage. The link
between cumulative volumes of production and cost has been
formalized in the concept of the learning curve . The relationship
between cumulative volumes of production and per-unit costs is
graphically represented in Figure 4.2    .




Figure 4.2 The Learning Curve and the Cost of Production
The Learning Curve and Economies of Scale
As depicted in Figure 4.2    , the learning curve is very similar to the
concept of economies of scale. However, there are two important
differences. First, whereas economies of scale focus on the
relationship between the volume of production at a given point in
time and average unit costs, the learning curve focuses on the
relationship between the cumulative volume of production—that is,
how much a firm has produced over time—and average unit costs.
Second, where diseconomies of scale are presumed to exist if a firm
gets too large, there is no corresponding increase in costs in the
learning-curve model as the cumulative volume of production grows.
Rather, costs continue to fall until they approach the lowest
technologically possible cost.
The Learning Curve and Cost Advantages
The learning-curve model is based on the empirical observation that
the costs of producing a unit of output fall as the cumulative volume
of output increases. This relationship was first observed in the
construction of aircraft before World War II. Research showed that
the labor costs per aircraft fell by 20 percent each time the
cumulative volume of production doubled.9 A similar pattern has
been observed in numerous industries, including the manufacture of
ships, computers, spacecraft, and semiconductors. In all these
cases, increases in cumulative production have been associated
with detailed learning about how to make production as efficient as
possible.


However, learning-curve cost advantages are not restricted to
manufacturing. Learning can be associated with any business
function, from purchasing raw materials to distribution and service.
Service industries can also experience important learning effects.
The learning curve applies whenever the cost of accomplishing a
business activity falls as a function of the cumulative number of
times a firm has engaged in that activity.10 Thus, for example, as
Warby Parker’s sales have increased, it is likely that their costs for
engaging in certain critical business functions has also fallen.
The Learning Curve and Competitive
Advantage
The learning-curve model summarized in Figure 4.2 has been
used to develop a model of cost-based competitive advantage that
links learning with market share and average production costs.11
Techniques for using this model to estimate a firm’s learning curve
cost advantage are summarized in Table 4.4 .
Table 4.4 Applying the Learning Curve to Estimate the Costs of
Two Firms Selling the Same Product
The logic behind this application of the learning-curve model is
straightforward: The first firm that successfully moves down the
learning curve will obtain a cost advantage over rivals. To move a
production process down the learning curve, a firm needs to have
higher levels of cumulative volume of production. Of course, firms
successful at producing high volumes of output need to sell that
output to customers. In selling this output, firms are increasing their
market share. Thus, to drive down the learning curve and obtain a
cost advantage, firms must aggressively acquire market share.


This application of learning-curve logic has been criticized by a wide
variety of authors.12 Two criticisms are particularly salient. First,
although the acquisition of market share is likely to allow a firm to
reduce its production costs, the acquisition of share itself is
expensive. Indeed, as described in the Research Made Relevant
feature, sometimes the cost of acquiring share may rise to equal its
value—and thus not be a source of economic profits.

The second major criticism of this application of the learning-curve
model is that there is, in this logic, no room for any other business or
corporate strategies. In other words, this application of the learning
curve implicitly assumes that firms can compete only on the basis of
their low costs and that other strategies are not possible. Most
industries, however, are characterized by opportunities for at least
some of these other strategies, and thus this strict application of the
learning-curve model can be misleading.13
These criticisms aside, it is still the case that in many industries firms
with larger cumulative levels of production, other things being equal,
will have lower average production costs. Thus, experience in all the
facets of production can be a source of cost advantage even if the
single-minded pursuit of market share to obtain these cost
reductions may not give a firm above normal economic returns.
Differential Low-Cost Access to
Productive Inputs
Besides economies of scale, diseconomies of scale, and learning-
curve cost advantages, differential low-cost access to productive
inputs may create cost differences among firms producing similar
products in an industry. Productive inputs are any supplies used
by a firm in conducting its business activities; they include, among
other things, labor, capital, land, and raw materials. A firm that has
differential low-cost access to one or more of these factors is likely to
have lower economic costs compared to rivals.


Consider, for example, an oil company with fields in Saudi Arabia
compared to an oil company with fields in the North Sea. The cost of
obtaining crude oil for the first firm is considerably less than the cost
of obtaining crude oil for the second. North Sea drilling involves the
construction of giant offshore drilling platforms, housing workers on
floating cities, and transporting oil across an often-stormy sea.
Drilling in Saudi Arabia requires only the simplest drilling
technologies because the oil is found relatively close to the surface.
R E S E A R C H M A D E R E L E VA N T



Research on the relationship between market share and firm
performance has continued over many decades. Early work
identified market share as the primary determinant of firm
performance. Indeed, one particularly influential article
identified market share as being the key to firm profitability.
How Valuable Is Market Share—Really?

This initial conclusion about the relationship between market
share and firm performance was based on the observed
positive correlation between these two variables. That is,
firms with large market share tend to be highly profitable;
firms with low market share tend to be less profitable. The
logical conclusion of this empirical finding seems to be that if
a firm wants to increase its profitability, it should increase its
market share.

Not so fast. It turns out that the relationship between market
share and firm profits is not that simple. Consider the
following scenario: Suppose that 10 companies all conclude
that the key to their profitability is gaining market share. To
acquire share from each other, each firm will probably
increase its advertising and other marketing expenses as well
as reduce its prices. This has the effect of putting a price on
the market share that a firm seeks to acquire—that is, these
competing firms are creating what might be called a “market-
for-market share.” And because there are 10 firms competing
for share in this market, this market is likely to be highly
competitive. Returns to acquiring share in such competitive
markets for market share should fall to a normal economic
level.

All this analysis suggests that although there may be a cross-
sectional positive correlation between market share and firm
performance—that is, at a given point in time, market share
   and firm performance may be positively correlated—this
   correlation may not be positive over time, as firms seek to
   increase their market share. Several papers have examined
   this hypothesis. Two of the most influential of these papers—
   by Dick Rumelt and Robin Wensley and by Cynthia
   Montgomery and Birger Wernerfelt—have shown that
   markets for market share often do emerge in industries, that
   these markets are often very competitive, and that acquiring
   market share in these competitive markets does not improve
   a firm’s economic performance. Indeed, in their study of the
   consolidation of the beer industry Montgomery and Wernerfelt
   showed that firms such as Anheuser-Busch and Miller paid so
   much for the market share they acquired that it actually
   reduced their profitability.

   The general consensus in the literature now seems to be that
   large market share is an outcome of a competitive process
   within an industry, not an appropriate objective of firm
   managers, per se. Thus, firms with particularly valuable
   strategies will naturally attract more customers, which, in turn,
   suggests that they will often have higher market share. That
   is, a firm’s valuable strategies generate both high levels of
   firm performance and large market share. This, in turn,
   explains the positive correlation between market share and
   firm performance.14


Of course, to create a cost advantage, the cost of acquiring low-cost
productive inputs must be less than the cost savings generated by
these factors. For example, even though it may be much less costly
to drill for oil in Saudi Arabia than in the North Sea, if it is very
expensive to purchase the rights to drill in Saudi Arabia compared to
the costs of the rights to drill in the North Sea, the potential cost
advantages of drilling in Saudi Arabia can be lost. As with all sources
of cost advantages, firms must be careful to weigh the cost of
acquiring that advantage against the value of that advantage for the
firm.


Differential access to raw materials such as oil, coal, and copper ore
can be important determinants of a cost advantage. However,
differential access to other productive inputs can be just as
important. For example, it may be easier (i.e., less costly) to recruit
highly trained electronics engineers for firms located near where
these engineers receive their schooling than for firms located some
distance away. This lower cost of recruiting is a partial explanation of
the development of geographic technology centers such as Silicon
Valley in California, Route 128 in Massachusetts, and the Research
Triangle in North Carolina. In all three cases, firms are located
physically close to several universities that train the engineers that
are the lifeblood of high-technology companies. The search for low-
cost labor can create ethical dilemmas, as described in the Ethics
and Strategy feature.
Technological Advantages Independent
of Scale
Another possible source of cost advantage in an industry may be the
different technologies that firms employ to manage their business. It
has already been suggested that larger firms may have technology-
based cost advantages that reflect their ability to exploit economies
of scale (e.g., the two-thirds rule).


Traditionally, discussion of technology-based cost advantages has
focused on the machines, computers, and other physical tools that
firms use to manage their business. Clearly, in some industries,
these physical technology differences between firms can create
important cost differences—even when the firms in question are
approximately the same size in terms of volume of production. In the
steel industry, for example, technological advances can substantially
reduce the cost of producing steel. Firms with the latest steel-
manufacturing technology will typically enjoy some cost advantage
compared to similar-sized firms that do not have the latest
technology. The same applies in the manufacturing of
semiconductors, automobiles, consumer electronics, and a wide
variety of other products.15


These physical technology cost advantages apply in service firms as
well as in manufacturing firms. For example, early in its history
Charles Schwab, a leading discount brokerage, purchased a
computer system that enabled it to complete customer transactions
more rapidly and at a lower cost than its rivals.16 Kaiser-
Permanente, the largest HMO in the United States, has invested in
information technology that doctors can use to avoid incorrect
diagnoses and procedures that can adversely affect a patient’s
health. By avoiding these medical mistakes, Kaiser-Permanente can
substantially reduce its costs of providing medical service.17


However, the concept of technology can be easily broadened to
include not just the physical tools that firms use to manage their
business, but any processes within a firm used in this way. This
concept of firm technology includes not only the technological
hardware     of companies—the machines and robots—but also the
technological software       of firms—things such as the quality of
relations between labor and management, an organization’s culture,
and the quality of managerial controls. All these characteristics of a
firm can have an impact on a firm’s economic costs.18
E T H I C S A N D S T R AT E G Y



One of the most important productive inputs in almost all
companies is labor. Getting differential low-cost access to
labor can give a firm a cost advantage.

This search for low labor costs has led some firms to engage
in an international “race to the bottom.” It is well known that
the wage rates of most U.S. and Western European workers
are much higher than the wage rates of workers in other, less
developed parts of the world. While a firm might have to pay
its employees $20 per hour (in wages and benefits) to make
sneakers and basketball shoes in the United States, that
same firm may only have to pay an employee in the
Philippines or Malaysia or China $1.00 per day to make the
same sneakers and basketball shoes—shoes the firm might
be able to sell for $250 a pair in the United States and
Europe. Thus, many firms look to overseas manufacturing to
keep their labor cost low.
The Race to the Bottom


But this search for low labor cost has some important
unintended consequences. First, the location of the lowest
cost labor rates in the world changes over time. It used to be
that Mexico had the lowest labor rates, then Korea and the
Philippines, then Malaysia, then China, now Vietnam. As the
infrastructures of each of these countries evolve to the point
that they can support worldwide manufacturing, firms
abandon their relationships with firms in prior countries in
search of still lower costs in new countries. The only way
former “low-cost centers” can compete is to drive their costs
even lower.

This sometimes leads to a second unintended consequence
of the “race to the bottom”: horrendous working conditions
and low wages in these low-cost manufacturing settings.
Employees earning $1 for working a 10-hour day, six days a
week may look good on the corporate bottom line, but many
observers are deeply concerned about the moral and ethical
issues associated with this strategy. Indeed, several
companies—including Nike and Kmart—have been forced to
increase the wages and improve the working conditions of
many of their overseas employees.

An even more horrific result of this “race to the bottom” has
been the reemergence of what amounts to slavery in some
Western European countries and some parts of the United
States. In search of the promise of a better life, illegal
immigrants are sometimes brought to Western European
countries or the United States and forced to work in illegal,
underground factories. These illegal immigrants are
sometimes forced to work as many as 20 hours a day, for little
or no pay—supposedly to “pay off” the price of bringing them
out of their less developed countries. And because of their
illegal status and language barriers, they often do not feel
empowered to go to the local authorities.

Of course, the people who create and manage these facilities
are criminals and deserve contempt. But what about the
companies that purchase the services of these illegal and
immoral manufacturing operations? Aren’t they also culpable,
both legally and morally?19
Policy Choices
Thus far, this discussion has focused on reasons why a firm can gain
a cost advantage despite producing products that are similar to
competing firms’ products. When firms produce essentially the same
outputs, differences in economies of scale, learning curve
advantages, differential access to productive inputs, and differences
in technology can all create cost advantages (and disadvantages) for
them. However, firms can also make choices about the kinds of
products and services they will sell—choices that have an impact on
their relative cost position. These choices are called policy
choices     .


In general, firms that are attempting to implement a cost leadership
strategy will choose to produce relatively simple standardized
products that sell for relatively low prices compared to the products
and prices firms pursuing other business or corporate strategies
choose. These kinds of products often tend to have high volumes of
sales, which (if significant economies of scale exist) tend to reduce
costs even further.


These kinds of choices in product and pricing tend to have a very
broad impact on a cost leader’s operations. In these firms, the task
of reducing costs is not delegated to a single function or a special
task force within the firm, but is the responsibility of every manager
and employee. Cost reduction sometimes becomes the central
objective of the firm. Indeed, in this setting management must be
constantly alert to cost-cutting efforts that reduce the ability of the
firm to meet customers’ needs. However, it may have ethical
implications as well—as described in the Ethics and Strategy
feature.
The Value of Cost Leadership
Objective 4.3 Describe how cost leadership can create economic
                value for a firm.

There is little doubt that cost differences can exist among firms, even
when those firms are selling very similar products. Policy choices
about the kinds of products firms in an industry choose to produce
can also create important cost differences. But under what
conditions will these kinds of cost advantages actually create value
for a firm?
Cost Leadership and
Environmental Threats
It was suggested in Chapter 3       that one way to tell if a resource or
capability—such as the ability of a firm to have a cost advantage—
actually creates value for a firm is by whether that resource or
capability enables a firm to neutralize its external threats or exploit its
external opportunities. The ability of a cost leadership position to
neutralize external threats will be examined here. The ability of such
a position to enable a firm to exploit opportunities will be left as an
exercise. The specific economic consequences of cost leadership
are discussed in the Strategy in Depth feature.


A cost leadership competitive strategy helps reduce the threat of
new entrants by creating cost-based barriers to entry. Recall that
many of the barriers to entry cited in Chapter 2 , including
economies of scale and cost advantages independent of scale,
assume that incumbent firms have lower costs than potential
entrants. If an incumbent firm is a cost leader, for any of the reasons
just listed, then new entrants may have to invest heavily to reduce
their costs prior to entry. Often, new entrants will enter using another
business strategy (e.g., product differentiation) rather than
attempting to compete on costs.


Firms with a low-cost position also reduce the threat of rivalry. The
threat of rivalry is reduced through pricing strategies that low-cost
firms can engage in and through their relative impact on the
performance of a low-cost firm and its higher-cost rivals.


As suggested in Chapter 2       , substitutes become a threat to a firm
when their cost and performance, relative to a firm’s current products
or services, become more attractive to customers. Thus, when the
price of crude oil goes up, substitutes for crude oil become more
attractive. When the cost and performance of electronic calculators
improve, demand for mechanical adding machines disappears.


In this situation, cost leaders can keep their products and services
attractive relative to substitutes. While high-cost firms may have to
charge high prices to cover their costs, thus making substitutes more
attractive, cost leaders can keep their prices low and still earn
normal or above-normal economic profits.


Suppliers can become a threat to a firm by charging higher prices for
the goods or services they supply or by reducing the quality of those
goods or services. However, when a supplier sells to a cost leader,
that firm has greater flexibility in absorbing higher-cost supplies than
does a high-cost firm. Higher supply costs may destroy any above-
normal profits for high-cost firms but still allow a cost leader firm to
earn an above-normal profit.


Cost leadership based on large volumes of production and
economies of scale can also reduce the threat of suppliers. Large
volumes of production imply large purchases of raw materials and
other supplies. Suppliers are not likely to jeopardize these sales by
threatening their customers. Indeed, as was suggested earlier,
buyers are often able to use their purchasing volume to extract
volume discounts from suppliers.


Cost leadership can also reduce the threat of buyers. Powerful
buyers are a threat to firms when they insist on low prices or higher
quality and service from their suppliers. Lower prices threaten firm
revenues; higher quality can increase a firm’s costs. Cost leaders
can have their revenues reduced by buyer threats and still have
normal or above-normal performance. These firms can also absorb
the greater costs of increased quality or service and still have a cost
advantage over their competition.
S T R AT E G Y I N D E P T H



Another way to demonstrate that cost leadership can be a
source of economic value is to directly examine the economic
profits generated by a firm with a cost advantage operating in
an otherwise very competitive industry. This is done in Figure
4.3    .




F IG U R E

4.3 Cost Leadership and Economic Performance


The firms depicted in this figure are price takers —that is,
the price of the products or services they sell is determined by
market conditions and not by individual decisions of firms.
This implies that there is effectively no product differentiation
in this market and that no one firm’s sales constitute a large
percentage of this market.




The Economics of Cost Leadership


The price of goods or services in this type of market (P*) is
determined by aggregate industry supply and demand. This
industry price determines the demand facing an individual
firm in this market. Because these firms are price takers, the
demand facing an individual firm is horizontal—that is, firm
decisions about levels of output have a negligible impact on
overall industry supply and thus a negligible impact on the
market-determined price. A firm in this setting maximizes its
economic performance by producing a quantity of output (Q)
so that marginal revenue equals marginal cost (MC). The
ability of firms to earn economic profits in this setting depends
upon the relationship between the market-determined price
(P*) and the average total cost (ATC) of a firm at the quantity
it chooses to produce.

Firms in the market depicted in Figure 4.3     fall into two
categories. All but one firm have the average-total-cost curve
AT C2 and marginal-cost curve M C2 . However, one firm in

this industry has the average-total-cost curve AT C1 and
marginal-cost curve M C1 Notice that AT C1 is less than
AT C2   at the performance-maximizing quantities produced by
these two kinds of firms (Q1 and Q2 respectively). In this
particular example, firms with common average-total-cost
curves are earning zero economic profits, while the low-cost
firm is earning an economic profit (equal to the shaded area
in the figure). A variety of other examples could also be
constructed: The cost leader firm could be earning zero
economic profits, while other firms in the market are incurring
economic losses; the cost leader firm could be earning
substantial economic profits, while other firms are earning
smaller economic profits; the cost leader firm could be
incurring small economic losses, while the other firms are
incurring substantial economic losses; and so forth. However,
in all these examples the cost leader’s economic performance
   is greater than the economic performance of other firms in the
   industry. Thus, cost leadership can have an important impact
   on a firm’s economic performance.


Buyers can also be a threat through backward vertical integration.
Being a cost leader deters backward vertical integration by buyers
because a buyer that vertically integrates backward will often not
have costs as low as an incumbent cost leader. Rather than
vertically integrating backward and increasing its cost of supplies,
powerful buyers usually prefer to continue purchasing from their low-
cost suppliers.


Finally, if cost leadership is based on large volumes of production,
then the threat of buyers may be reduced because buyers may
depend on just a few firms for the goods or services they purchase.
This dependence reduces the willingness of buyers to threaten a
selling firm.
Cost Leadership and Sustained
Competitive Advantage
Objective 4.4 Identify the bases of cost leadership that are more
              likely to be rare and costly to imitate and those that
              area less likely to be rare and costly to imitate.

Given that cost leadership can be valuable, an important question
becomes: “Under what conditions will firms implementing this
business strategy be able to maintain that leadership to obtain a
sustained competitive advantage?” If cost leadership strategies can
be implemented by numerous firms in an industry or if no firms face
a cost disadvantage in imitating a cost leadership strategy, then
being a cost leader will not generate a sustained competitive
advantage for a firm. As suggested in Chapter 3 , the ability of a
valuable cost leadership competitive strategy to generate a
sustained competitive advantage depends on that strategy being
rare and costly to imitate, either through direct duplication or
substitution. As suggested in Tables 4.5 and 4.6 , the rarity and
imitability of a cost leadership strategy depend, at least in part, on
the sources of that cost advantage.


Table 4.5 The Rarity of Sources of Cost Advantage
Table 4.6 Direct Duplication of Cost Leadership
The Rarity of Sources of Cost
Advantage
Some of the sources of cost advantage listed in Table 4.5      are
likely to be rare among a set of competing firms; others are less
likely to be rare. Sources of cost advantage that are likely to be rare
include learning-curve economies (at least in emerging industries),
differential low-cost access to productive inputs, and technological
“software.” The remaining sources of cost advantage are less likely
to be rare.
Rare Sources of Cost Advantage
Early in the evolution of an industry, substantial differences in the
cumulative volume of production of different firms are not unusual.
Indeed, this was one of the major benefits associated with first-
mover advantages, discussed in Chapter 2        . These differences in
cumulative volume of production, in combination with substantial
learning-curve economies, suggest that, in some settings, learning-
curve advantages may be rare and thus a source of at least
temporary competitive advantage.

The definition of differential access to productive inputs implies that
this access is often rare. Certainly, if large numbers of competing
firms have this same access, then it cannot be a source of
competitive advantage.


Technological software is also likely to be rare among a set of
competing firms. These software attributes represent each firm’s
path through history. If these histories are unique, then the
technological software they create may also be rare. Of course, if
several competing firms experience similar paths through history, the
technological software in these firms is less likely to be rare.
Less Rare Sources of Cost Advantage
When the efficient size of a firm or plant is significantly smaller than
the total size of an industry, there will usually be numerous efficient
firms or plants in that industry, and a cost leadership strategy based
on economies of scale will not be rare. For example, if the efficient
firm or plant size in an industry is 500 units, and the total size of the
industry (measured in units produced) is 500,000 units, then there
are likely to be numerous efficient firms or plants in this industry, and
economies of scale are not likely to give any one firm a cost-based
competitive advantage.


Cost advantages based on diseconomies of scale are also not likely
to be rare. It is unusual for numerous firms to adopt levels of
production more than optimal levels. If only a few firms are too large
in this sense, then several competing firms in an industry that are not
too large will have cost advantages over the firms that are too large.
However, because several firms will enjoy these cost advantages,
they are not rare.

One important exception to this generalization may be when
changes in technology significantly reduce the most efficient scale of
an operation. Given such changes in technology, several firms may
be inefficiently large. If a small number of firms happen to be sized
appropriately, then the cost advantages these firms obtain in this
way may be rare. Such changes in technology have made large
integrated steel producers “too big” relative to smaller mini-mills.
Thus, mini-mills have a cost advantage over larger integrated steel
firms.

Technological hardware is also not likely to be rare, especially if it is
developed by suppliers and sold on the open market. However, if a
firm has proprietary technology development skills, it may possess
rare technological hardware that creates cost advantages.


Finally, policy choices by themselves are not likely to be a rare
source of cost advantage, particularly if the product or service
attributes in question are easy to observe and describe.
The Imitability of Sources of Cost
Advantage
Even when a particular source of cost advantage is rare, it must be
costly to imitate in order to be a source of sustained competitive
advantage. Both direct duplication and substitution, as forms of
imitation, are important. Again, as is shown in Table 4.6 , the
imitability of a cost advantage depends, at least in part, on the
source of that advantage.
Easy-to-Duplicate Sources of Cost
Advantage
In general, economies of scale and diseconomies of scale are
relatively easy-to-duplicate bases of cost leadership. As can be seen
in Table 4.6   , these sources of cost advantage do not build on
history, uncertainty, or socially complex resources and capabilities
and thus are not protected from duplication for these reasons.

For example, if a small number of firms obtain a cost advantage
based on economies of scale and if the relationship between
production scale and costs is widely understood among competing
firms, then firms at a cost disadvantage will rapidly adjust their
production to exploit these economies of scale. This can be done by
either growing a firm’s current operations to the point that the firm
exploits economies or by combining previously separate operations
to obtain these economies. Both actions enable a firm at a cost
disadvantage to begin using specialized machines, reduce the cost
of plant and equipment, increase employee specialization, and
spread overhead costs more effectively.


Indeed, perhaps the only time economies of scale are not subject to
low-cost duplication is when the efficient size of operations is a
significant percentage of total demand in an industry. Of course, this
is the situation described in Chapter 2    ’s discussion of economies
of scale as a barrier to entry. For example, as suggested earlier, BIC
Corporation, with its dominant market share in the disposable pen
market, has apparently been able to gain and retain an important
cost advantage in that market based on economies of scale. BIC’s
ability to retain this advantage reflects the fact that the optimal plant
size in the disposable pen market is a significant percentage of the
pen market, and thus economies of scale act as a barrier to entry in
that market.


Like economies of scale, in many settings diseconomies of scale will
not be a source of sustained competitive advantage for firms that
have not grown too large. In the short run, firms experiencing
significant diseconomies can shrink the size of their operations to
become more efficient. In the long run, firms that fail to adjust their
size will earn below-normal economic performance and cease
operations.


Although in many ways reducing the size of operations to improve
efficiency seems like a simple problem for managers in firms or
plants, in practice it is often a difficult change to implement. Because
of uncertainty, managers in a firm or plant that is too large may not
understand that diseconomies of scale have increased their costs.
Sometimes, managers conclude that the problem is that employees
are not working hard enough, that problems in production can be
fixed, and so forth. These firms or plants may continue their
inefficient operations for some time, despite costs that are higher
than the industry average.20


Other psychological processes can also delay the abandonment of
operations that are too large. One of these phenomena is known as
escalation of commitment        . Sometimes, managers committed to
an incorrect (cost-increasing or revenue-reducing) course of action
increase their commitment to this action as its limitations become
manifest. For example, a manager who believes that the optimal firm
size in an industry is larger than the actual optimal size may remain
committed to large operations despite costs that are higher than the
industry average.21


For all these reasons, firms suffering from diseconomies of scale
must often turn to outside managers to assist in reducing costs.
Outsiders bring a fresh view to the organization’s problems and are
not committed to the practices that generated the problems in the
first place.22
Bases of Cost Leadership That May Be
Costly to Duplicate
Although cost advantages based on learning-curve economies are
rare (especially in emerging industries), they are usually not costly to
duplicate. As suggested in Chapter 2 , for learning-curve cost
advantages to be a source of sustained competitive advantage the
learning obtained by a firm must be proprietary. Most recent
empirical work suggests that in most industries learning is not
proprietary and thus can be rapidly duplicated as competing firms
move down the learning curve by increasing their cumulative volume
of production.23


However, the fact that learning is not costly to duplicate in most
industries does not mean it is never costly to duplicate. In some
industries, the ability of firms to learn from their production
experience may vary significantly. For example, some firms treat
production errors as failures and systematically punish employees
who make those errors. These firms effectively reduce risk-taking
among their production employees and thus reduce the chances of
learning how to improve their production process. Alternatively, other
firms treat production errors as opportunities to learn how to improve
their production process. These firms are likely to move rapidly down
the learning curve and retain cost advantages, despite the
cumulative volume of production of competing firms. These different
responses to production errors reflect the organizational cultures of
these different firms. Because organizational cultures are socially
complex, they can be very costly to duplicate.24


Because technological hardware can usually be purchased across
supply markets, it is also not likely to be difficult to duplicate.
Sometimes, however, technological hardware can be proprietary or
closely bundled with other unique, costly-to-duplicate resources
controlled by a firm. In this case, technological hardware can be
costly to duplicate.

It is unusual, but not impossible, for policy choices, per se, to be a
source of sustained competitive cost advantages for a firm. As
suggested earlier, if the policies in question focus on easy to observe
and easy to describe product characteristics, then duplication is
likely, and cost advantages based on policy choices will be
temporary. However, if policy choices reflect complex decision
processes within a firm, teamwork among different parts of the
design and manufacturing process, or any of the software
commitments discussed previously, then policy choices can be a
source of sustained competitive advantage, if only a few firms have
the ability to make these choices.


Indeed, most of the successful firms that operate in unattractive
industries make policy choices that are costly to imitate because
they reflect historical, causally ambiguous, and socially complex firm
processes. Thus, for example, Wal-Mart’s supply chain management
strategy—a policy with clear low-cost implications—actually reflects
Wal-Mart’s unique history, its socially complex relations with
suppliers, and its unique organizational culture. And Ryanair’s low-
price pricing strategy—a strategy that reflects its low-cost position—
is possible because of the kind of airplane fleet Ryanair has built
over time, the commitment of its employees to Ryanair’s success, a
charismatic founder, and its unique organizational culture. Because
these policies reflect costly-to-imitate attributes of these firms, they
can be sources of sustained competitive advantage.

However, for these and other firms, it is not these policy choices, per
se, that create sustainable cost leadership advantages. Rather, it is
how these policies flow from the historical, causally ambiguous, and
socially complex processes within a firm that makes them costly to
duplicate. This has been the case for the Oakland A’s baseball team,
as described in the Strategy in the Emerging Enterprise feature.
Costly-to-Duplicate Sources of Cost
Advantage
Differential access to low-cost productive inputs and technological
software is usually a costly-to-duplicate basis of cost leadership. This
is because these inputs often build on historical, uncertain, and
socially complex resources and capabilities. As suggested earlier,
differential access to productive inputs often depends on the location
of a firm. Moreover, to be a source of economic profits, this valuable
location must be obtained before its full value is widely understood.
Both these attributes of differential access to productive inputs
suggest that if, in fact, it is rare, it will often be costly to duplicate.
First, some locations are unique and cannot be duplicated. For
example, most private golf clubs would like to own courses with the
spectacular beauty of Pebble Beach in Monterey, California, but
there is only one Pebble Beach—a course that runs parallel to some
of the most beautiful oceanfront scenery in the world. Although
“scenery” is an important factor of production in running and
managing a golf course, the re-creation of Pebble Beach’s scenery
at some other location is simply beyond our technology.


Second, even if a location is not unique, once its value is revealed,
acquisition of that location is not likely to generate economic profits.
Thus, for example, although being in Silicon Valley provides access
to some important low-cost productive inputs for electronics firms,
firms that moved to this location after its value was revealed have
substantially higher costs than firms that moved there before its full
value was revealed. These higher costs effectively reduce the
economic profit that otherwise could have been generated. Referring
to the discussion in Chapter 3     , these arguments suggest that
gaining differential access to productive inputs in a way that
generates economic profits may reflect a firm’s unique path through
history.


Technological software is also likely to be difficult to duplicate and
often can be a source of sustained competitive advantage. As
suggested in Chapter 3      , the values, beliefs, culture, and
teamwork that constitute this software are socially complex and may
be immune from competitive duplication. Firms with cost advantages
rooted in these socially complex resources incorporate cost savings
in every aspect of their organization; they constantly focus on
improving the quality and cost of their operations, and they have
employees who are firmly committed to, and understand, what it
takes to be a cost leader. Other firms may talk about low costs; these
firms live cost leadership. Ryanair, Dell, Wal-Mart, and Southwest
are all examples of such firms. If there are few firms in an industry
with these kinds of beliefs and commitments, then they can gain a
sustained competitive advantage from their cost advantage.
Substitutes for Sources of Cost
Advantage
In an important sense, all the sources of cost advantage listed in
this chapter are at least partial substitutes for each other. Thus, for
example, one firm may reduce its cost through exploiting economies
of scale in large-scale production, and a competing firm may reduce
its costs through exploiting learning-curve economies and large
cumulative volume of production. If these different activities have
similar effects on a firm’s cost position and if they are equally costly
to implement, then they are strategic substitutes for each other.


Because of the substitute effects of different sources of cost
advantage, it is not unusual for firms pursuing cost leadership to
simultaneously pursue all the cost-reduction activities discussed in
this chapter. Implementation Implementation of this bundle of cost-
reducing activities may have few substitutes. If duplicating this
bundle of activities is also rare and difficult, then a firm may be able
to gain a sustained competitive advantage from doing so.


Several of the other strategies discussed in later chapters can also
have the effect of reducing a firm’s costs and thus may be
substitutes for the sources of cost reduction discussed in
this chapter. For example, one common motivation for firms
implementing strategic alliance strategies is to exploit economies of
scale in combination with other firms. Thus, a strategic alliance that
reduces a firm’s costs may be a substitute for a firm exploiting
economies of scale on its own to reduce its costs. As is discussed in
more detail in Chapter 8     , many of the strategic alliances among
aluminum mining and smelting companies are motivated by realizing
economies of scale and cost reduction. Also, corporate
diversification strategies often enable firms to exploit economies of
scale across different businesses within which they operate. In this
setting, each of these businesses—treated separately—may have
scale disadvantages, but collectively their scale creates the same
low-cost position as that of an individual firm that fully exploits
economies of scale to reduce costs in a single business (see
Chapter 9     ).
Organizing to Implement Cost
Leadership
Objective 4.5 Explain how firms use a functional organizational
              structure, formal and informal management controls,
              and compensation policies to implement cost
              leadership strategies.

As with all strategies, firms seeking to implement cost leadership
strategies must adopt an organizational structure, management
controls, and compensation policies that reinforce this strategy.
Some key issues associated with using these organizing tools to
implement cost leadership are summarized in Table 4.7 .

Table 4.7 Organizing to Realize the Full Potential of Cost
Leadership Strategies
Organizational Structure in
Implementing Cost Leadership
As suggested in Table 4.7    , firms implementing cost leadership
strategies will generally adopt what is known as a functional
organizational structure     .25 An example of a functional
organizational structure is presented in Figure 4.4 . Indeed, this
functional organizational structure is the structure used to implement
all business-level strategies a firm might pursue, although this
structure is modified when used to implement these different
strategies.




Figure 4.4 An Example of the U-form Organizational Structure

In a functional structure, each of the major business functions is
managed by a functional manager . For example, if
manufacturing, marketing, finance, accounting, and sales are all
included within a functional organization, then a manufacturing
manager leads that function, a marketing manager leads that
function, a finance manager leads that function, and so forth. In a
functional organizational structure, all these functional managers
report to one person. This person has many different titles—
including president, CEO, chair, or founder. However, for purposes of
this discussion, this person will be called the chief executive officer
(CEO) .


The CEO in a functional organization has a unique status. Everyone
else in this company is a functional specialist. The manufacturing
people manufacture, the marketing people market, the finance
people finance, and so forth. Indeed, only one person in the
functional organization must have a multifunctional perspective: the
CEO. This role is so important that sometimes the functional
organization is called a U-form structure , where the “U” stands
for “unitary”—because there is only one person in this organization
that has a broad, multifunctional corporate perspective.


When used to implement a cost leadership strategy, this U-form
structure is kept as simple as possible. As suggested in Table 4.7     ,
firms implementing cost leadership strategies will have relatively few
layers in their reporting structure. Complicated reporting structures,
including matrix structures where one employee reports to two
or more people, are usually avoided.26 Corporate staff in these
organizations is kept small. Such firms do not operate in a wide
range of business functions, but instead operate only in those few
business functions where they have valuable, rare, and costly-to-
imitate resources and capabilities.
One excellent example of a firm pursuing a cost leadership strategy
is Nucor Steel. A leader in the mini-mill industry, Nucor has only five
layers in its reporting structure, compared to 12 to 15 in its major
higher-cost competitors. Most operating decisions at Nucor are
delegated to plant managers, who have full profit-and-loss
responsibility for their operations. Corporate staff at Nucor is small
and focuses its efforts on accounting for revenues and costs and on
exploring new manufacturing processes to further reduce Nucor’s
operating expenses and expand its business opportunities. Nucor’s
former president Ken Iverson believed that Nucor does only two
things well: build plants efficiently and run them effectively. Thus,
Nucor focuses its efforts in these areas and subcontracts many of its
other business functions, including the purchase of its raw materials,
to outside vendors.27
Responsibilities of the CEO in a
Functional Organization
The CEO in a U-form organization has two basic responsibilities: (1)
to formulate the strategy of the firm; and (2) to coordinate the
activities of the functional specialists in the firm to facilitate the
implementation of this strategy. In the special case of a cost
leadership strategy, the CEO must decide on which bases such a
strategy should be founded—including any of those listed in Table
4.1 —and then coordinate functions within a firm to make sure that
the economic potential of this strategy is fully realized.
Strategy Formulation
The CEO in a U-form organization engages in strategy formulation
by applying the strategic management process described in Chapter
1   . A CEO establishes the firm’s mission and associated
objectives, evaluates environmental threats and opportunities,
understands the firm’s strengths and weaknesses, and then chooses
one or more of the business and corporate strategies discussed in
this book. In the case of a cost leadership strategy, the application of
the strategic management process must lead a CEO to conclude
that the best chance for achieving a firm’s mission is for that firm to
adopt a cost leadership business-level strategy.


Although the responsibility for strategy formulation in a U-form
organization ultimately rests with the CEO, this individual needs to
draw on the insights, analysis, and involvement of functional
managers throughout the firm. CEOs who fail to involve functional
managers in strategy formulation run several risks. First, strategic
choices made in isolation from functional managers may be made
without complete information. Second, limiting the involvement of
functional managers in strategy formulation can limit their
understanding of, and commitment to, the chosen strategy. This can
severely limit their ability, and willingness, to implement any strategy
—including cost leadership—that is chosen.28
Coordinating Functions for Strategy
Implementation
Even the best-formulated strategy is competitively irrelevant if it is
not implemented. And the only way that strategies can be effectively
implemented is if all the functions within a firm are aligned in a way
consistent with this strategy.


For example, compare two firms pursuing a cost leadership strategy.
All but one of the first firm’s functions—marketing—are aligned with
this cost leadership strategy. All of the second firm’s functions—
including marketing—are aligned with this cost leadership strategy.
Because marketing is not aligned with the first firm’s cost leadership
strategy, this firm is likely to advertise products that it does not sell.
That is, this firm might advertise its products based on their style and
performance, but sell products that are reliable (but not stylish) and
inexpensive (but not high performers). A firm that markets products it
does not actually sell is likely to disappoint its customers. In contrast,
the second firm that has all its functions—including marketing—
aligned with its chosen strategy is more likely to advertise products it
actually sells and thus is less likely to disappoint its customers. In the
long run, it seems reasonable to expect this second firm to
outperform the first, at least with respect to implementing a cost
leadership strategy.

Of course, alignment is required of all a firm’s functional areas, not
just marketing. Also, misalignment can emerge in any of a firm’s
functional areas. Some common misalignments between a firm’s
cost leadership strategy and its functional activities are listed in
Table 4.8    .


Table 4.8 Common Misalignments Between Business Functions
and a Cost Leadership Strategy
Management Controls in Implementing
Cost Leadership
As suggested in Table 4.7    , cost leadership firms are typically
characterized by very tight cost-control systems; frequent and
detailed cost-control reports; an emphasis on quantitative cost goals
and targets; and close supervision of labor, raw materials, inventory,
and other costs. Again, Nucor Steel is an example of a cost
leadership firm that has implemented these kinds of control systems.
At Nucor, groups of employees are given weekly cost and
productivity improvement goals. Groups that meet or exceed these
goals receive extra compensation. Plant managers are held
responsible for cost and profit performance. A plant manager who
does not meet corporate performance expectations cannot expect a
long career at Nucor. Similar group-oriented cost-reduction systems
are in place at some of Nucor’s major competitors, including
Chaparral Steel.29


Less formal management control systems also drive a cost-reduction
philosophy at cost leadership firms. For example, although Wal-Mart
is one of the most successful retail operations in the world, its
Arkansas headquarters is plain and simple. Indeed, some have
suggested that Wal-Mart’s headquarters looks like a warehouse. Its
style of interior decoration was once described as “early bus station.”
Wal-Mart even involves its customers in reducing costs by asking
them to “help keep your costs low” by returning shopping carts to the
designated areas in Wal-Mart’s parking lots.30
Compensation Policies and
Implementing Cost Leadership
Strategies
As suggested in Table 4.7 compensation in cost leadership firms
is usually tied directly to cost-reducing efforts. Such firms often
provide incentives for employees to work together to reduce costs
and increase or maintain quality, and they expect every employee to
take responsibility for both costs and quality. For example, an
important expense for retail stores like Wal-Mart is “shrinkage”—a
nice way of saying people steal stuff. About half the shrinkage in
most stores comes from employees stealing their own companies’
products.


Wal-Mart used to have a serious problem with shrinkage. Among
other solutions (including hiring “greeters” whose real job is to
discourage shoplifters), Wal-Mart developed a compensation
scheme that took half the cost savings created by reduced shrinkage
and shared it with employees in the form of a bonus. With this
incentive in place, Wal-Mart’s shrinkage problems dropped
significantly.
Summary
Firms producing essentially the same products can have different
costs for several reasons. Some of the most important of these are:
(1) size differences and economies of scale; (2) size differences and
diseconomies of scale; (3) experience differences and learning-curve
economies; (4) differential access to productive inputs; and (5)
technological advantages independent of scale. In addition, firms
competing in the same industry can make policy choices about the
kinds of products and services to sell that can have an important
impact on their relative cost position. Cost leadership in an industry
can be valuable by assisting a firm in reducing the threat of each of
the five environmental threats in an industry outlined in Chapter 2 .

Each of the sources of cost advantage discussed in this chapter can
be a source of sustained competitive advantage if it is rare and
costly to imitate. Overall, learning-curve economies, differential
access to productive inputs, and technological “software” are more
likely to be rare than other sources of cost advantage. Differential
access to productive inputs and technological “software” is more
likely to be costly to imitate—either through direct duplication or
through substitution—than the other sources of cost advantage.
Thus, differential access to productive inputs and technological
“software” will often be more likely to be a source of sustained
competitive advantage than cost advantages based on other
sources.
Of course, to realize the full potential of these competitive
advantages, a firm must be organized appropriately. Organizing to
implement a strategy always involves a firm’s organizational
structure, its management control systems, and its compensation
policies. The organizational structure used to implement cost
leadership—and other business strategies—is called a functional, or
U-form, structure. The CEO is the only person in this structure who
has a corporate perspective. The CEO has two responsibilities: to
formulate a firm’s strategy and to implement it by coordinating
functions within a firm. Ensuring that a firm’s functions are aligned
with its strategy is essential to successful strategy implementation.


When used to implement a cost leadership strategy, the U-form
structure generally has few layers, simple reporting relationships,
and a small corporate staff. It focuses on a narrow range of business
functions. The management control systems used to implement
these strategies generally include tight cost controls; quantitative
cost goals; close supervision of labor, raw materials, inventory, and
other costs; and a cost leadership culture and mentality. Finally,
compensation policies in these firms typically reward cost reduction
and provide incentives for everyone in the organization to be part of
the cost-reduction effort.
MyLab Management
Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management to
complete the problems marked with this icon   .
Challenge Questions
   4.1. Ryanair, Wal-Mart, Timex, Casio, and Hyundai are all
   OFTEN cited as examples of firms pursuing cost leadership
   strategies, but these firms make substantial investments in
   advertising, which seems more likely to be associated with a
   product differentiation strategy. Are these firms really pursuing
   a cost leadership strategy, or are they pursuing a product
   differentiation strategy by emphasizing their lower costs?
       4.2. When economies of scale exist, firms with large
   volumes of production will have lower costs than those with
   smaller volumes of production. The realization of these
   economies of scale, however, is far from automatic. What
   actions can firms take to ensure that they realize whatever
   economies of scale are created by their volume of
   production?
   4.3. Firms engage in an activity called “forward pricing” when
   they establish, during the early stages of the learning curve, a
   price for their products that is lower than their actual costs, in
   anticipation of lower costs later on, after significant learning
   has occurred. Under what conditions, if any, does forward
   pricing make sense?
       4.4. When firms do engage in “forward pricing” what risks,
   if any, do they face?
   4.5. One way of thinking about organizing to implement cost
   leadership strategies is that firms pursuing this strategy
should be highly centralized, have high levels of direct
supervision, and keep employee wages to an absolute
minimum. Another approach is to decentralize decision-
making authority—to ensure that individuals who know the
most about reducing costs make decisions about how to
reduce costs. This, in turn, would imply less direct supervision
and somewhat higher levels of employee wages. Why is this?
4.6. Which of the two approaches used to implement cost
leadership strategies seems more reasonable?
4.7. Under what conditions would the two different
approaches for implementing cost leadership strategies make
more or less sense?
Problem Set
  4.8. The economies of scale curve in Figure 4.1         can be
  represented algebraically in the following equation:

                                                      2
                Average costs = a + bQ + cQ



  where Q is the quantity produced by a firm and a, b, and c are
  coefficients that are estimated from industry data. For
  example, it has been shown that the economies of scale
  curve for United States savings and loans is:

                                                           2
           Average costs = 2.38 − .615A + .54A



  where A is a savings and loan’s total assets. Using this
  equation, what is the optimal size of a savings and loan?
  (Hint: Plug in different values of A and calculate average
  costs. The lowest possible average cost is the optimal size for
  a savings and loan.)
  4.9. The learning curve depicted in Figure 4.2 can be
  represented algebraically by the following equation:

                                                          −β
          Average time to produce x units = ax



  where x is the total number of units produced by a firm in its
  history, a is the amount of time it took a firm to produce its first
unit, and β is a coefficient that describes the rate of learning in
a firm.
Suppose it takes a team of workers 45 hours to assemble its
first product (a = 45) and 40.5 hours to assemble the
second. When a firm doubles its production (in this case, from
one to two units) and cuts its production time (in this case,
from 45 hours to 40.5 hours), learning is said to have
occurred (in this case, a 40.5/45, or 90 percent, learning
curve). The β for a 90 percent learning curve is 0.3219. Thus,
this firm’s learning curve is:
                                                      −0.3219
     Average time to produce x units = 45x



What is the average amount of time it will take this firm to
produce six products? (Hint: Simply plug “6” in for x in the
equation and solve.) What is the total time it took this firm to
produce these six products? (Hint: Simply multiply the number
of units produced, 6, by the average time it will take to
produce these six products.) What is the average time it will
take this firm to produce five products? What is the total time
it will take this firm to produce five products? So, what is the
total time it will take this firm to produce its sixth product?
(Hint: Subtract the total time needed to produce five products
from the total time needed to produce six products.)
Suppose a new firm is going to start producing these same
products. Assuming this new firm does not learn anything
from established firms, what will its cost disadvantage be
when it assembles its first product? (Hint: Compare the costs
of the experienced firm’s sixth product with the cost of the
new firm’s first product.)




MyLab Management
Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management for
Auto-graded writing questions as well as the following
Assisted-graded writing questions:

          4.10. What are the implications and
       considerations for a small business that
       chooses a cost leadership business strategy?
          4.11. Discuss the impact of a cost leadership
       strategy on environmental threats.
End Notes
1    “How I Built This: Warby Parker—Dave Gilbeau and Neil Blumenthal,” NPR podcast,
December 26, 2016; Douglas MacMillan, blogs.wsj.com/digits/2015/04/30/eyeglass-
retailer-warby-parker-valued-at-1-2-billion (Accessed January 12, 2017);
www.Luxotica.com (accessed January 12, 2017); www.WarbyParker.com (accessed
January 12, 2017); Carmel DeAmicis, pando.com/2014/01/29/warbyparker-has-one-big-
weakness-and-this-competitor-is-exploiting-i (Accessed January 12, 2017).
2    Kiley, D. (2011). “Fiat headed back to U.S. after 27 years.” http://autos.aol.com/
article/fiat-500-coming-to-america/ Accessed Aug 21, 2013.
3    Christensen, C. R., N. A. Berg, and M. S. Salter. (1980). Policy formulation and
administration: A casebook of senior management problems in business, 8th ed.
Homewood, IL: Irwin, p. 163.
4    Scherer, F. M. (1980). Industrial market structure and economic performance. Boston:
Houghton Mifflin; Moore, F. T. (1959). “Economies of scale: Some statistical evidence.”
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 73, pp. 232–245; and Lau, L. J., and S. Tamura. (1972).
“Economies of scale, technical progress, and the nonhomothetic leontief production
function.” Journal of Political Economy, 80, pp. 1167–1187.
5    Scherer, F. M. (1980). Industrial market structure and economic performance. Boston:
Houghton Mifflin; and Perrow, C. (1984). Normal accidents: Living with high-risk
technologies. New York: Basic Books.
6    See D. Besanko and R. Braeutigam (2014) Microeconomics. 5th edition. NY: Wiley, pg.
320 – 321; Jay Barney (2011) Gaining and Sustaining Competitive Advantage. 4th edition.
NY: Person, pg. 154 – 155.
7    Hamermesh, R. G., and R. S. Rosenbloom. (1989). “Crown Cork and Seal Co., Inc.”
Harvard Business School Case No. 9-388-096.
8    See Hackman, J. R., and G. R. Oldham. (1980). Work redesign. Reading, MA:
Addison-Wesley.
9    This relationship was first noticed in 1925 by the commander of Wright-Patterson Air
Force Base in Dayton, Ohio.
10     Learning curves have been estimated for numerous industries. Boston Consulting
Group. (1970). “Perspectives on experience.” Boston: BCG, presents learning curves for
over 20 industries while Lieberman, M. (1984). “The learning curve and pricing in the
chemical processing industries.” Rand Journal of Economics, 15, pp. 213–228, estimates
learning curves for 37 chemical products.
11     See Henderson, B. (1974). The experience curve reviewed III—How does it work?
Boston: Boston Consulting Group; and Boston Consulting Group. (1970). “Perspectives on
experience.” Boston: BCG.
12     Hall, G., and S. Howell. (1985). “The experience curve from the economist’s
perspective.” Strategic Management Journal, 6, pp. 197–212.
13     Hill, C. W. L. (1988). “Differentiation versus low-cost or differentiation and low-cost: A
contingency framework.” Academy of Management Review, 13(3), pp. 401–412.
14     R. D. Buzzell, B. T. Gale, and R. M. Sultan (1975). “Market share—the key to
profitability.” Harvard Business Review, 53, pp. 97–106; R. Rumelt and R. Wensley (1981).
“In search of the market share effect.” Proceedings of the Academy of Management
Meetings, 1981, pp. 2–6; C. Montgomery and B. Wernerfelt (1991). “Sources of superior
performance: Market share versus industry effects in the U.S. brewing industry.”
Management Science, 37, pp. 954–959.
15     See Ghemawat, P., and H. J. Stander III. (1992). “Nucor at a crossroads.” Harvard
Business School Case No. 9-793-039 on technology in steel manufacturing and cost
advantages; Shaffer, R. A. (1995). “Intel as conquistador.” Forbes, February 27, p. 130 on
technology in semiconductor manufacturing and cost advantages; Monteverde, K., and D.
Teece. (1982). “Supplier switching costs and vertical integration in the automobile industry.”
Rand Journal of Economics, 13(1), pp. 206–213; and McCormick, J., and N. Stone. (1990).
“From national champion to global competitor: An interview with Thomson’s Alain Gomez.”
Harvard Business Review, May/June, pp. 126–135 on technology in consumer electronic
manufacturing and cost advantages.
16     Schultz, E. (1989). “Climbing high with discount brokers.” Fortune, Fall (special
issue), pp. 219–223.
17     Schonfeld, E. (1998). “Can computers cure health care?” Fortune, March 30, pp.
111+

18     Ibid.
19     R. DeGeorge (2000). “Ethics in international business—A contradiction in terms?”
Business Credit, 102, pp. 50+; G. Edmondson, K. Carlisle, I. Resch, K. Nickel Anhalt, and
H. Dawley (2000). “Workers in bondage.” BusinessWeek, November 27, pp. 146+; D.
Winter (2000). “Facing globalization.” Ward’s Auto World, 36, pp. 7+.
20    See Meyer, M. W., and L. B. Zucker. (1989). Permanently failing organizations.
Newbury Park, CA: Sage.
21    Staw, B. M. (1981). “The escalation of commitment to a course of action.” Academy
of Management Review, 6, pp. 577–587.
22    Hesterly, W. S. (1989). Top management succession as a determinant of firm
performance and de-escalation: An agency problem. Unpublished doctoral dissertation,
University of California, Los Angeles.
23    Barney, J. B. (1986). “Organizational culture: Can it be a source of sustained
competitive advantage?” Academy of Management Review, 11, pp. 656–665.
24    See Spence, A. M. (1981). “The learning curve and competition.” Bell Journal of
Economics, 12, pp. 49–70, on why learning needs to be proprietary; Mansfield, E. (1985).
“How rapidly does new industrial technology leak out?” Journal of Industrial Economics,
34(2), pp. 217–223; Lieberman, M. B. (1982). The learning-curve, pricing and market
structure in the chemical processing industries. Unpublished doctoral dissertation, Harvard
University; Lieberman, M. B. (1987). “The learning curve, diffusion, and competitive
strategy.” Strategic Management Journal, 8, pp. 441–452, on why it usually is not
proprietary.
25    Williamson, O. (1975). Markets and hierarchies. New York: Free Press.
26    Davis, S. M., and P. R. Lawrence. (1977). Matrix. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.
27    See Ghemawat, P., and H. J. Stander III. (1992). “Nucor at a crossroads.” Harvard
Business School Case No. 9-793-039.
28    See Floyd, S. W., and B. Woldridge. (1992). “Middle management involvement in
strategy and its association with strategic type: A research note.” Strategic Management
Journal, 13, pp. 153–167.
29    Ibid.
30    Walton, S. (1992). Sam Walton, Made in America: My story. New York: Doubleday.
Chapter 5 Product Differentiation
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to:


               5.1 Define product differentiation, describe 11
               bases of product differentiation, and how these
               bases of product differentiation can be grouped
               into three categories.
               5.2 Describe how product differentiation can
               create economic value.
               5.3 Describe:
                   a. Those bases of product differentiation that are
                      not likely to be costly to duplicate, those that
                      may be costly to duplicate, and those that will
                      often be costly to duplicate.
                   b. The main substitutes for product
                      differentiation strategies.


               5.4 Describe how organizational structure,
               control processes, and compensation policies
               can be used to implement product differentiation
               strategies.
               5.5 Discuss whether it is possible for a firm to
               implement cost leadership and product
               differentiation strategies simultaneously.
MyLab Management
  Improve Your Grade!


If your instructor is using MyLab Management, visit
www.pearson.com/mylab/management for
simulations, tutorials, and end-of-chapter problems.
Who Is Victoria, and What Is
Her Secret?
Sexy. Glamorous. Mysterious. Victoria’s Secret is the world’s
leading specialty retailer of lingerie and beauty products. With
2015 sales of $7.67 billion and operating income of $1.4
billion, Victoria’s Secret sells its mix of sexy lingerie, prestige
fragrances, and fashion-inspired collections through more
than 1,100 retail stores in the U.S. and Canada, and another
390 stores operating under licenses in the rest of the world.

But all this glamour and success leaves the two central
questions about this firm unanswered: “Who is Victoria?” and
“What is her secret?”

It turns out that Victoria is a retired fashion model who lives in
an up-and-coming fashionable district in London. She has a
committed relationship and is thinking about starting a family.
However, these maternal instincts are balanced by Victoria’s
adventurous and sexy side. She loves good food, classical
music, and great wine. She travels frequently and is as much
at home in New York, Paris, and Los Angeles as she is in
London. Her fashion tastes are edgy enough to never be
boring, but practical enough to never be extreme. Her lingerie
is an essential part of her wardrobe. Sexy and alluring, but
never cheap, trashy, or vulgar, Victoria’s lingerie is the perfect
complement to her overall lifestyle. Most important, while
Victoria knows she is beautiful and sexy, she also knows that
it is her brains, not her looks, that have enabled her to
succeed in life.




Image Source/Getty Images




This is who Victoria is. This is the woman that Victoria’s
Secret’s designers design for, the woman Victoria’s Secret
marketers create advertising for, and the woman to whom all
Victoria’s Secret sales associates are trained to sell.

And this is her secret—Victoria doesn’t really exist. Or, more
precisely, the number of real women in the entire world who
are like Victoria is very small—no more than a handful. So
why would a company like Victoria’s Secret organize all of its
design, marketing, and sales efforts around meeting the
lingerie needs of a woman who, for all practical purposes,
doesn’t really exist?
Victoria’s Secret knows how few of its actual customers are
like Victoria. However, it is convinced that many of its
customers would like to be treated as if they were Victoria, if
only for a time, when they come into a Victoria’s Secret store.
Victoria’s Secret is not just selling lingerie; it is selling an
opportunity, almost a fantasy, to be like Victoria—to live in an
exciting and sexy city, to travel the world, to have refined, yet
edgy, tastes. To buy and wear Victoria’s Secret lingerie, to
wear Victoria’s Secret perfume is—if only for a moment or two
—an opportunity to experience life as Victoria experiences it.

Practically speaking, building an entire company around
meeting the needs of a customer who does not actually exist
creates some interesting problems. You can’t just call Victoria
on the phone and ask her about trends in her lifestyle; you
can’t form a focus group of people like Victoria and ask them
to evaluate new lines of lingerie. In a sense, not only has
Victoria’s Secret invented Victoria; it also had to invent
Victoria’s lifestyle—and the lingerie, fragrances, and
accessories that go along with that lifestyle. And as long as
the lifestyle that it invents for Victoria is desirable to, but just
beyond the reach of, its actual customers, Victoria’s Secret
will continue to be able to sell a romantic fantasy—along with
its products.1
Victoria’s Secret uses the fictional character
“Victoria” to help implement its product
differentiation strategy. As successful as this
effort is, this is only one of many ways that firms
can try to differentiate their products.
What is Product Differentiation?
Objective 5.1 Define product differentiation, describe 11 bases of
                product differentiation, and how these bases of
                product differentiation can be grouped into three
                categories.


Warby Parker exemplifies a firm pursuing a cost leadership strategy,
Victoria’s Secret exemplifies a firm pursuing a product differentiation
strategy. Product differentiation is a business strategy where
firms attempt to gain a competitive advantage by increasing the
perceived value of their products or services relative to the perceived
value of other firms’ products or services. These other firms can be
rivals or firms that provide substitute products or services. By
increasing the perceived value of its products or services, a firm will
be able to charge a higher price than it would otherwise. This higher
price can increase a firm’s revenues and generate competitive
advantages.


A firm’s attempts to create differences in the relative perceived value
of its products or services often are often made by altering the
objective properties of those products or services. Rolex attempts to
differentiate its watches from Timex and Casio watches by
manufacturing them with solid gold cases. Mercedes attempts to
differentiate its cars from Fiat’s cars through sophisticated
engineering and high performance. Victoria’s Secret attempts to
differentiate its shopping experience from Wal-Mart, and other
retailers, through the merchandise it sells and the way it sells it.

Although firms often alter the objective properties of their products or
services to implement a product differentiation strategy, the
existence of product differentiation, in the end, is always a matter of
customer perception. Products sold by two different firms may be
very similar, but if customers believe the first is more valuable than
the second, then the first product has a differentiation advantage.

In the world of “craft” or “microbrewery” beers, for example, the
consumers’ image of how a beer was brewed was sometimes very
different from how it was actually brewed. Boston Beer Company, for
example, sells Samuel Adams Beer. Customers could tour the
Boston Beer Company, where they saw a small row of fermenting
tanks and two 10-barrel kettles being tended by a brewmaster
wearing rubber boots. However, through much of its history Samuel
Adams Beer was not actually brewed in this small factory. Instead, it
was brewed—in 200-barrel steel tanks—in Cincinnati, Ohio, by the
Hudepohl-Schoenling Brewing Company, a contract brewing firm
that also manufactured Hudy Bold Beer and Little Kings Cream Ale.
Maui Beer Company’s Aloha Lager brand was brewed in Portland,
Oregon, and Pete’s Wicked Ale (a craft beer that claims it is brewed
“one batch at a time. Carefully.”) was brewed in batches of 400
barrels each by Stroh Brewery Company, makers of Old Milwaukee
Beer. However, as long as consumers believed that there were
important differences between these “craft” beers and more
traditional brews—despite many of their common manufacturing
methods—the more willing they were to pay more for a craft beer.
This willingness to pay more suggests that an important “perceptual”
basis of product differentiation exists for these craft beers.2 If
products or services are perceived as being different in a way that is
valued by consumers, then product differentiation exists.


Just as perceptions can create product differentiation between
products that are essentially identical, the lack of perceived
differences between products with very different characteristics can
prevent product differentiation. For example, consumers with an
untrained palate may not be able to distinguish between two different
wines, even though expert wine tasters would be very much aware
of their differences. Those who are not aware of these differences,
even if they exist, will not be willing to pay more for one wine over
the other. In this sense, for these consumers at least, these two
wines, though different, are not differentiated.


Product differentiation is always a matter of customer perceptions,
but firms can take a variety of actions to influence these perceptions.
These actions can be thought of as different bases of product
differentiation.
Bases of Product Differentiation
A large number of authors, drawing on both theory and empirical
research, have developed lists of ways firms can differentiate their
products or services.3 Some of these are listed in Table 5.1                                            .
Although the purpose of all these bases of product differentiation is
to create the perception that a firm’s products or services are
unusually valuable, different bases of product differentiation attempt
to accomplish this objective in different ways. For example, the first
four bases of product differentiation listed in Table 5.1                                      attempt to
create this perception by focusing directly on the attributes of the
products or services a firm sells. The second three attempt to create
this perception by developing a relationship between a firm and its
customers. The last five attempts to create this perception through
linkages within and between firms. Of course, these bases of product
differentiation are not mutually exclusive. Indeed, firms will often
attempt to differentiate their products or services along multiple
dimensions simultaneously. An empirical method for identifying ways
that firms have differentiated their products is discussed in the
Research Made Relevant                              feature.


Table 5.1 Ways Firms Can Differentiate Their Products
Sources: M. E. Porter (1980). Competitive strategy. New York: Free Press; R. E. Caves and P. Williamson (1985).

“What is product differentiation, really?” Journal of Industrial Economics, 34, pp. 113–132.
Focusing on the Attributes of a Firm’s
Products or Services
The first group of bases of product differentiation identified in Table
5.1   focuses on the attributes of a firm’s products or services.


Product Features
The most obvious way that firms can try to differentiate their
products is by altering the features of the products they sell. One
industry in which firms are constantly modifying product features to
attempt to differentiate their products is the automobile industry. For
example, at the 2017 Detroit Auto Show, General Motors introduced
a new feature on certain versions of its Cadillac CTS called “V2V”—
this is a vehicle to vehicle communication system that will enable
cars to gather data from other cars about traffic and road conditions
ahead. Bentley introduced a new 48-volt electric system in one of its
high-end SUVs—to provide more power than the typical 12 volt
systems in most cars, but without the risks that are sometimes
associated with the 300 volt systems of electric vehicles. And Volvo,
BMW, and Toyota all introduced models with e-axles—typically a
rear axle driven by an electric motor that can supplement or even
replace power from the front axle driven by a gasoline engine. This
hybrid design is less complex than having both gas and electric
power delivered through the same axle. All these—and many more
—changes in the attributes of automobiles are examples of firms
trying to differentiate their products by altering product features.4
Product Complexity
Product complexity can be thought of as a special case of altering a
product’s features to create product differentiation. In a given
industry, product complexity can vary significantly. The BIC “crystal
pen,” for example, has only a handful of parts, whereas a Cross or a
Mont Blanc pen has many more parts. To the extent that these
differences in product complexity convince consumers that the
products of some firms are more valuable than the products of other
firms, product complexity can be a basis of product differentiation.
Timing of Product Introduction
Introducing a product at the right time can also help create product
differentiation. As suggested in Chapter 2       , in some industry
settings (e.g., in emerging industries) the critical issue is to be a first
mover—to introduce a new product before all other firms. Being first
in emerging industries can enable a firm to set important
technological standards, preempt strategically valuable assets, and
develop customer-switching costs. These first-mover advantages
can create a perception among customers that the products or
services of the first-moving firm are somehow more valuable than
the products or services of other firms.5


Timing-based product differentiation, however, does not depend only
on being a first mover. Sometimes, a firm can be a later mover in an
industry but introduce products or services at just the right time and
thereby gain a competitive advantage. This can happen when the
ultimate success of a product or service depends on the availability
of complementary products or technologies. For example, the
domination of Microsoft’s MS-DOS operating system, and thus
ultimately the domination of Windows, was only possible because
IBM introduced its version of the personal computer. Without the IBM
PC, it would have been difficult for any operating system—including
MS-DOS—to have such a large market presence.6
Location.
The physical location of a firm can also be a source of product
differentiation.7 Consider, for example, Disney’s operations in
Orlando, Florida. Beginning with The Magic Kingdom and EPCOT
Center, Disney built a world-class destination resort in Orlando. Over
the years, Disney has added numerous attractions to its core
entertainment activities, including Disney Studios, more than 11,000
Disney-owned hotel rooms, a $100 million sports center, an
automobile racing track, an after-hours entertainment district, and,
most recently, a $1 billion theme park called “The Animal
Kingdom”—all in and around Orlando. Now, families can travel from
around the world to Orlando, knowing that in a single location they
can enjoy a full range of Disney adventures.8
R E S E A R C H M A D E R E L E VA N T



Of all the possible bases of product differentiation that might
exist in a particular market, how does one pinpoint those that
have actually been used? Research in strategic management
and marketing has shown that the bases of product
differentiation can be identified using multiple regression
analysis to estimate what are called hedonic prices . A
hedonic price is that part of the price of a product or service
that is attributable to a particular characteristic of that product
or service.
Discovering the Bases of Product Differentiation


The logic behind hedonic prices is straightforward. If
customers are willing to spend more for a product with a
particular attribute than they are willing to spend for that same
product without that attribute, then that attribute differentiates
the first product from the second. That is, this attribute is a
basis of product differentiation in this market.

Consider, for example, the price of used cars. The market
price of a used car can be determined using a variety of used
car buying guides. These guides typically establish the base
price of a used car. This base price typically includes product
features that are common to almost all cars—a radio, a
standard engine, a heater/defroster. Because these product
attributes are common to virtually all cars, they are not a
basis for product differentiation.

However, in addition to these common features, the base
price of an automobile is adjusted based on some less
common features—a high-end stereo system, a larger
engine, air-conditioning. How much the base price of the car
is adjusted when these features are added—$300 for a high-
end stereo, $500 for a larger engine, $200 for air-conditioning
—are the hedonic prices of these product attributes. These
product attributes differentiate well-equipped cars from less-
well-equipped cars and, because consumers are willing to
pay more for well-equipped cars, can be thought of as bases
of product differentiation in this market.
Multiple regression techniques are used to estimate these
hedonic prices in the following way. For our simple car
example, the following regression equation is estimated:

       P rice = a1 + b1 (Stereo) + b2 + (Engine)


                 +b3 (AC)




where Price is the retail price of cars, Stereo is a variable
describing whether a car has a high-end stereo, Engine is a
variable describing whether a car has a large engine, and AC
is a variable describing whether a car has air-conditioning. If
the hedonic prices for these features are those suggested
earlier, the results of running this regression analysis would
be:

      P rice = $7, 800 + $300(Stereo)


                        +$500(Engine) + $200(AC)




where $7,800 is the base price of this type of used car.   9
Focusing on the Relationship Between a
Firm and Its Customers
The second group of bases of product differentiation identified in
Table 5.1    focuses on relationships between a firm and its
customers.
Product Customization
Products can also be differentiated by the extent to which they are
customized for particular customer applications. Product
customization is an important basis for product differentiation in a
wide variety of industries, from enterprise software to bicycles.


Enterprise software is software that is designed to support all of a
firm’s critical business functions, including human resources, payroll,
customer service, sales, quality control, and so forth. Major
competitors in this industry include Oracle and SAP. However,
although these firms sell basic software packages, most firms find it
necessary to customize these basic packages to meet their specific
business needs. The ability to build complex software packages that
can also be customized to meet the specific needs of a particular
customer is an important basis of product differentiation in this
marketplace.


In the bicycle industry, consumers can spend as little as $50 on a
bicycle, and as much as—well, almost as much as they want on a
bicycle, easily more than $15,000. High-end bicycles use, of course,
the very best components, such as brakes and gears. But what
distinguishes these bicycles is their feel when they are ridden. High-
end bike frames are built from special steel, carbon fiber, and even
titanium. The geometry of the frame can also be customized to a
rider’s height, weight, torso length, inseam, and so forth. Once a
serious rider becomes accustomed to a particular bicycle, it is very
difficult for that rider to switch to alternative suppliers.
Consumer Marketing
Differential emphasis on consumer marketing has been a basis for
product differentiation in a wide variety of industries. Through
advertising and other consumer marketing efforts, firms attempt to
alter the perceptions of current and potential customers, whether
specific attributes of a firm’s products or services are actually
altered.


For example, in the soft drink industry, Mountain Dew—a product of
PepsiCo—was originally marketed as a fruity, lightly carbonated
drink that tasted, “as light as a morning dew in the mountains.”
However, beginning in the late 1990s Mountain Dew’s marketing
efforts changed dramatically. “As light as a morning dew in the
mountains” became, “Do the Dew,” and Mountain Dew focused its
marketing efforts on young, mostly male, extreme-sports–oriented
consumers. Young men riding snowboards, roller blades, mountain
bikes, and skateboards—mostly upside down—became central to
most Mountain Dew commercials. Mountain Dew became a sponsor
of a wide variety of extreme sports contests and an important
sponsor of the X Games on ESPN. Note that this radical
repositioning of Mountain Dew depended entirely on changes in
consumer marketing. The features of the underlying product were
not changed.
Reputation
Perhaps the most important relationship between a firm and its
customers depends on a firm’s reputation in its marketplace. Indeed,
a firm’s reputation    is no more than a socially complex relationship
between a firm and its customers. Once developed, a firm’s
reputation can last a long time, even if the basis for that reputation
no longer exists.10


A firm that has tried to exploit its reputation for cutting-edge
entertainment is MTV, a division of Viacom, Inc. Although several
well-known video artists—including Madonna—have had their videos
banned from MTV, it has still been able to develop a reputation for
risk-taking on television. MTV believes that its viewers have come to
expect the unexpected in MTV programming. One of the first efforts
to exploit, and reinforce, this reputation for risk-taking was Beavis
and Butthead, an animated series starring two teenage boys with
serious social and emotional development problems. More recently,
MTV exploited its reputation by inventing an entirely new genre of
television—“reality TV”—through its Real World and Road Rules
programs. Not only were these shows cheap to produce, they built
on MTV’s reputation for providing entertainment that is a little risky, a
little sexy, and a little controversial. Indeed, MTV has been so
successful in providing this kind of entertainment that it had to form
an entirely new cable station—MTV 2—to actually show music
videos.11
Focusing on Links Within and Between
Firms
The third group of bases of product differentiation identified in Table
5.1   focuses on links within and between firms.


Linkages Between Functions
A less obvious but still important way in which a firm can attempt to
differentiate its products is through linking different functions within
the firm. For example, research in the pharmaceutical industry
suggests that firms vary in the extent to which they can integrate
different scientific specialties—such as genetics, biology, chemistry,
and pharmacology—to develop new drugs. Firms that can form
effective multi-disciplinary teams to explore new drug categories
have what some have called an architectural competence               , that
is, the ability to use organizational structure to facilitate coordination
among scientific disciplines to conduct research. Firms that have this
competence can more effectively pursue product differentiation
strategies—by introducing new and powerful drugs—than those that
do not have this competence. And in the pharmaceutical industry,
where firms that introduce such drugs can experience very large
positive returns, the ability to coordinate across functions is an
important source of competitive advantage.12
Links with Other Firms
Another basis of product differentiation is linkages with other firms.
Here, instead of differentiating products or services based on
linkages between functions within a single firm or linkages between
different products, differentiation is based on explicit linkages
between one firm’s products and the products or services of other
firms.


This form of product differentiation has increased in popularity over
the past several years. For example, with the growth in popularity of
stock car racing in the United States, more and more corporations
are looking to link their products or services with famous names and
cars in NASCAR. Firms such as Burger King, McDonald’s Target,
Taco Bell, GEICO, Farmers Insurance, Lowe’s, FedEx, 5-Hour
Energy, and Miller Lite have all been major sponsors of NASCAR
teams. In one year, the Coca-Cola Corporation filled orders for more
than 200,000 NASCAR-themed vending machines. Visa struggled to
keep up with demand for its NASCAR affinity cards, and more than 1
million NASCAR Barbies were sold by Mattel—generating revenues
of about $50 million. The conditions under which cooperative
strategic alliances create value and are sources of sustained
competitive advantage are discussed in detail in Chapter 11         .
Product Mix
One of the outcomes of links among functions within a firm and links
between firms can be changes in the mix of products a firm brings to
the market. This mix of products or services can be a source of
product differentiation, especially when: (1) those products or
services are technologically linked; or (2) when a single set of
customers purchase several of a firm’s products or services.


For example, technological interconnectivity is an extremely
important selling point in the information technology business and,
thus, an important basis of potential product differentiation. However,
seamless interconnectivity—where Company A’s computers talk to
Company B’s computers across Company C’s data line merging a
database created by Company D’s software with a database created
by Company E’s software to be used in a calling center that operates
with Company F’s technology—has been extremely difficult to
realize. For this reason, some information technology firms try to
realize the goal of interconnectivity by adjusting their product mix,
that is, by selling a bundle of products whose interconnectivity they
can control and guarantee to customers. This goal of selling a
bundle of interconnected technologies can influence a firm’s
research and development, strategic alliance, and merger and
acquisition strategies because all these activities can influence the
set of products a firm brings to market.


Shopping malls are an example of the second kind of linkage among
a mix of products—where products have a common set of
customers. Many customers prefer to go to one location, to shop at
several stores at once, rather than travel to a series of locations to
shop. This one-stop shopping reduces travel time and helps turn
shopping into a social experience. Mall development companies
have recognized that the value of several stores brought together in
a particular location is greater than the value of those stores if they
were isolated, and they have invested to help create this mix of retail
shopping opportunities.13
Distribution Channels
Linkages within and between firms can also have an impact on how
a firm chooses to distribute its products, and distribution channels
can be a basis of product differentiation. For example, in the soft
drink industry, Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, and 7-Up all distribute their
drinks through a network of independent and company-owned
bottlers. These firms manufacture key ingredients for their soft drinks
and ship these ingredients to local bottlers, who add carbonated
water, package the drinks in bottles or cans, and distribute the final
product to soft drink outlets in each geographic area. Each local
bottler has exclusive rights to distribute a particular brand in a
geographic location.


Canada Dry has adopted a completely different distribution network.
Instead of relying on local bottlers, Canada Dry packages its soft
drinks in several locations and then ships them directly to wholesale
grocers, who distribute the product to local grocery stores,
convenience stores, and other retail outlets.


One of the consequences of these alternative distribution strategies
is that Canada Dry has a relatively strong presence in grocery stores
but a relatively small presence in soft drink vending machines. The
vending machine market is dominated by Coca-Cola and PepsiCo.
These two firms have local distributors that maintain and stock
vending machines. Canada Dry has no local distributors and can get
its products into vending machines only when they are purchased by
local Coca-Cola or Pepsi distributors. These local distributors are
likely to purchase and stock Canada Dry products such as Canada
Dry ginger ale, but they are contractually prohibited from purchasing
Canada Dry’s various cola products.14


Service and Support
Finally, products have been differentiated by the level of service and
support associated with them. For example, some personal
computer firms have very low levels of service provided by
independent service dealers. Others have outsourced service and
support functions to overseas companies, often in India. On the
other hand, some firms continue to staff support centers with highly
qualified individuals, thereby providing a high level of support.15
Product Differentiation and
Creativity
The bases of product differentiation listed in Table 5.1     indicate a
broad range of ways in which firms can differentiate their products
and services. In the end, however, any effort to list all possible ways
to differentiate products and services is doomed to failure. Product
differentiation is ultimately an expression of the creativity of
individuals and groups within firms. It is limited only by the
opportunities that exist, or that can be created, in a particular
industry and by the willingness and ability of firms to creatively
explore ways to take advantage of those opportunities. It is not
unreasonable to expect that the day some academic researcher
claims to have developed the definitive list of bases of product
differentiation, some creative engineer, marketing specialist, or
manager will think of yet another way to differentiate his or her
product.
The Value of Product
Differentiation
Objective 5.2 Describe how product differentiation can create
              economic value.


In order to have the potential for generating competitive advantages,
the bases of product differentiation upon which a firm competes must
be valuable. The market conditions under which product
differentiation can be valuable are discussed in the Strategy in
Depth feature. More generally, to be valuable, bases of product
differentiation must enable a firm to neutralize its threats and/or
exploit its opportunities.
Product Differentiation and
Environmental Threats
Successful product differentiation helps a firm respond to each of the
environmental threats identified. For example, product differentiation
helps reduce the threat of new entry by forcing potential entrants to
an industry to absorb not only the standard costs of beginning
business, but also the additional costs associated with overcoming
incumbent firms’ product differentiation advantages. The relationship
between product differentiation and new entry has already been
discussed in Chapter 2 .


Product differentiation reduces the threat of rivalry because each
firm in an industry attempts to carve out its own unique product
niche. Rivalry is not reduced to zero because these products still
compete with one another for a common set of customers, but it is
somewhat attenuated because the customers each firm seeks are
different. For example, both a Rolls-Royce and a Fiat satisfy the
same basic consumer need—transportation—but it is unlikely that
potential customers of Rolls-Royce will also be interested in
purchasing a Fiat or vice versa.


Product differentiation also helps firms reduce the threat of
substitutes by making a firm’s current products appear more
attractive than substitute products. For example, fresh food can be
thought of as a substitute for frozen processed foods. To make its
frozen processed foods more attractive than fresh foods, products
such as Stouffer’s and Swanson are marketed heavily through
television advertisements, newspaper ads, point-of-purchase
displays, and coupons.


Product differentiation can also reduce the threat of powerful
suppliers. Powerful suppliers can raise the prices of the products or
services they provide. Often, these increased supply costs must be
passed on to a firm’s customers in the form of higher prices if a firm’s
profit margin is not to deteriorate. A firm without a highly
differentiated product may find it difficult to pass its increased costs
on to customers because these customers will have numerous other
ways to purchase similar products or services from a firm’s
competitors. However, a firm with a highly differentiated product may
have loyal customers or customers who are unable to purchase
similar products or services from other firms. These types of
customers are more likely to accept increased prices. Thus, a
powerful supplier may be able to raise its prices, but, up to some
point, these increases will not reduce the profitability of a firm selling
a highly differentiated product.


Finally, product differentiation can reduce the threat of powerful
buyers. When a firm sells a highly differentiated product, it enjoys a
“quasi-monopoly” in that segment of the market. Buyers interested in
purchasing this particular product must buy it from a particular firm.
Any potential buyer power is reduced by the ability of a firm to
withhold highly valued products or services from a buyer.
S T R AT E G Y I N D E P T H



The two classic treatments of the relationship between
product differentiation and firm value, developed
independently and published at approximately the same time,
are by Edward Chamberlin and Joan Robinson.

Both Chamberlin and Robinson examine product
differentiation and firm performance relative to perfect
competition. As explained in Chapter 2     , under perfect
competition, it is assumed that there are numerous firms in an
industry, each controlling a small proportion of the market,
and the products or services sold by these firms are assumed
to be identical. Under these conditions, firms face a horizontal
demand curve (because they have no control over the price
of the products they sell), and they maximize their economic
performance by producing and selling output such that
marginal revenue equals marginal costs. The maximum
economic performance a firm in a perfectly competitive
market can obtain, assuming no cost differences across firms,
is normal economic performance.
The Economics of Product Differentiation


When firms sell differentiated products, they gain some ability
to adjust their prices. A firm can sell its output at very high
prices and produce relatively smaller amounts of output, or it
can sell its output at very low prices and produce relatively
greater amounts of output. These trade-offs between price
and quantity produced suggest that firms selling differentiated
products face a downward-sloping demand curve, rather than
the horizontal demand curve for firms in a perfectly
competitive market. Firms selling differentiated products and
facing a downward-sloping demand curve are in an industry
structure described by Chamberlin as monopolistic
competition . It is as if, within the market niche defined by
a firm’s differentiated product, a firm possesses a monopoly.

Firms in monopolistically competitive markets still maximize
their economic profit by producing and selling a quantity of
products such that marginal revenue equals marginal cost.
The price that firms can charge at this optimal point depends
on the demand they face for their differentiated product. If
demand is large, then the price that can be charged is
greater; if demand is low, then the price that can be charged
is lower. However, if a firm’s average total cost is below the
price it can charge (i.e., if average total cost is less than the
demand-determined price), then a firm selling a differentiated
product can earn an above-normal economic profit.

Consider the example presented in Figure 5.1          . Several
curves are relevant in this figure. First, note that a firm in this
industry faces downward-sloping demand (D). This means
that the industry is not perfectly competitive and that a firm
has some control over the prices it will charge for its products.
Also, the marginal-revenue curve (MR) is downward sloping
and everywhere lower than the demand curve. Marginal
revenue is downward sloping because to sell additional levels
of output of a single product, a firm must be willing to lower its
price. The marginal-revenue curve is lower than the demand
curve because this lower price applies to all the products sold
by a firm, not just to any additional products the firm sells.
The marginal-cost curve (MC) is upward sloping, indicating
that to produce additional outputs a firm must accept
additional costs. The average-total-cost curve (ATC) can have
a variety of shapes, depending on the economies of scale,
the cost of productive inputs, and other cost phenomena
described in Chapter 4    .




F IG U R E

5.1 Product Differentiation and Firm Performance: The
Analysis of Monopolistic Competition


These four curves (demand, marginal revenue, marginal cost,
and average total cost) can be used to determine the level of
economic profit for a firm under monopolistic competition. To
maximize profit, the firm produces an amount (Qe ) such that
marginal costs equal marginal revenues. To determine the
price of a firm’s output at this level of production, a vertical
line is drawn from the point where marginal costs equal
marginal revenues. This line will intersect with the demand
curve. Where this vertical line intersects demand, a horizontal
line is drawn to the vertical (price) axis to determine the price
a firm can charge. In the figure, this price is Pe . At the point
Pe   average total cost is less than the price. The total revenue
obtained by the firm in this situation (price   × quantity)        is
indicated by the shaded area in the figure. The economic
profit portion of this total revenue is indicated by the
crosshatched section of the shaded portion of the figure.
Because this crosshatched section is above average total
costs in the figure, it represents a competitive advantage. If
this section was below average total costs, it would represent
a competitive disadvantage.

Chamberlin and Robinson go on to discuss the impact of
entry into the market niche defined by a firm’s differentiated
product. As discussed in Chapter 2 , a basic assumption of
S-C-P models is that the existence of above-normal economic
performance motivates entry into an industry or into a market
niche within an industry. In monopolistically competitive
industries, such entry means that the demand curve facing
incumbent firms shifts downward and to the left. This implies
that an incumbent firm’s customers will buy less of its output if
it maintains its prices or (equivalently) that a firm must lower
its prices to maintain its current volume of sales. In the long
run, entry into this market niche can lead to a situation where
the price of goods or services sold when a firm produces
output such that marginal cost equals marginal revenue is
exactly equal to that firm’s average total cost. At this point, a
firm earns zero economic profits even if it still sells a
differentiated product.16
Product Differentiation and
Environmental Opportunities
Product differentiation can also help a firm take advantage of
environmental opportunities. For example, in fragmented industries
firms can use product differentiation strategies to help consolidate a
market. In the office-paper industry, Xerox has used its brand name
to become the leading seller of paper for office copy machines and
printers. Arguing that its paper is specially manufactured to avoid
jamming in its own copy machines, Xerox was able to brand what
had been a commodity product and facilitate the consolidation of
what had been a very fragmented industry.17


The role of product differentiation in emerging industries was
discussed in Chapter 2 . By being a first mover in these industries,
firms can gain product differentiation advantages based on
perceived technological leadership, preemption of strategically
valuable assets, and buyer loyalty due to high switching costs.


In mature industries, product differentiation efforts often switch from
attempts to introduce radically new technologies to product
refinement as a basis of product differentiation. For example, in the
mature retail gasoline market firms attempt to differentiate their
products by selling slightly modified gasoline (cleaner-burning
gasoline, gasoline that cleans fuel injectors, and so forth) and by
altering the product mix (linking gasoline sales with convenience
stores). In mature markets, it is sometimes difficult to find ways to
actually refine a product or service. In such settings, firms can
sometimes be tempted to exaggerate the extent to which they have
refined and improved their products or services. The implications of
these exaggerations are discussed in the Ethics and Strategy
feature.


Product differentiation can also be an important strategic option in a
declining industry. Product-differentiating firms may be able to
become leaders in this kind of industry (based on their reputation,
unique product attributes, or some other product differentiation
basis). Alternatively, highly differentiated firms may be able to
discover a viable market niche that will enable them to survive
despite the overall decline in the market.
E T H I C S A N D S T R AT E G Y



One of the most common ways to try to differentiate a product
is to make claims about that product’s performance. In
general, high-performance products command a price
premium over low-performance products. However, the
potential price advantages enjoyed by high-performance
products can sometimes lead firms to make claims about their
products that, at the least, strain credibility and, at the most,
simply lie about what their products can do.
Product Claims and the Ethical Dilemmas in Health Care


Some of these claims are easily dismissed as harmless
exaggerations. Few people actually believe that using a
particular type of whitening toothpaste is going to make your
in-laws like you or that not wearing a particular type of
deodorant is going to cause patrons in a bar to collapse when
you lift your arms in victory after a foosball game. These
exaggerations are harmless and present few ethical
challenges.

However, in the field of health care, exaggerated product
performance claims can have serious consequences. This
can happen when a patient takes a medication with
exaggerated performance claims instead of a medication with
more modest, although accurate, performance claims. A
history of false medical performance claims in the United
States led to the formation of the Food and Drug
Administration (FDA), a federal regulatory agency charged
with evaluating the efficacy of drugs before they are
marketed. Historically, the FDA has adopted the “gold
standard” of drug approval—not only must a drug
demonstrate that it does what it claims, it must also
demonstrate that it does not do any significant harm to the
patient. Patients can be confident that drugs that pass the
FDA approval process meet the highest standards in the
world.
However, this “gold standard” of approval creates important
ethical dilemmas—mostly stemming from the time it takes a
drug to pass the FDA approval process. This process can
take between five and seven years. During FDA trials,
patients who might otherwise benefit from a drug are not
allowed to use it because it has not yet received FDA
approval. Thus, although the FDA approval process may work
very well for people who may need a drug sometime in the
future, it works less well for those who need a drug right now.

A growing suspicion among some consumers that the FDA
process may prevent effective drugs from being marketed has
helped feed the growth of alternative treatments—usually
based on some herbal or more natural formula. Such
treatments are careful to note that their claims—-everything
from regrowing hair to losing weight to enhancing athletic
performance to quitting smoking—have not been tested by
the FDA. And yet these claims are still made.

Some of these performance claims seem at least reasonable.
For example, it is now widely accepted that ephedra does
behave as an amphetamine and thus is likely to enhance
strength and athletic performance. Others—including those
that claim that a mixture of herbs can actually increase the
size of male genitals—seem far-fetched, at best. Indeed, a
recent analysis of herbal treatments making this claim found
no ingredients that could have this effect, but did find an
unacceptably high concentration of bacteria from animal
feces that can cause serious stomach disorders. Firms that
   sell products based on exaggerated and unsubstantiated
   claims face their own ethical dilemmas. And, without the FDA
   to ensure product safety and efficacy, the adage caveat
   emptor—let the buyer beware—seems like good advice.18


Finally, the decision to implement a product differentiation strategy
can have a significant impact on how a firm acts in a global industry.
For example, several firms in the retail clothing industry with
important product differentiation advantages in their home markets
are beginning to enter the United States retail clothing market. These
firms include Sweden’s H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB, with its
emphasis on “cheap chic”; the Dutch firm Mexx; the Spanish
company Zara; and the French sportswear company Lacoste.19
Product Differentiation
and Sustained Competitive
Advantage
Objective 5.3 Describe:
                 a. Those bases of product differentiation that are
                    not likely to be costly to duplicate, those that
                    may be costly to duplicate, and those that will
                    often be costly to duplicate.
                 b. The main substitutes for product
                    differentiation strategies.

Product differentiation strategies add value by enabling firms to
charge prices for their products or services that are greater than their
average total cost. Firms that implement this strategy successfully
can reduce a variety of environmental threats and exploit a variety of
environmental opportunities. However, as discussed in Chapter 3 ,
the ability of a strategy to add value to a firm must be linked with rare
and costly-to-imitate organizational strengths in order to generate a
sustained competitive advantage. Each of the bases of product
differentiation listed earlier in this chapter varies with respect to how
likely it is to be rare and costly to imitate.
Rare Bases for Product
Differentiation
The concept of product differentiation generally assumes that the
number of firms that have been able to differentiate their products in
a particular way is, at some point in time, smaller than the number of
firms needed to generate perfect competition dynamics. Indeed, the
reason that highly differentiated firms can charge a price for their
product that is greater than average total cost is because these firms
are using a basis for product differentiation that few competing firms
are also using.


Ultimately, the rarity of a product differentiation strategy depends on
the ability of individual firms to be creative in finding new ways to
differentiate their products. As suggested earlier, highly creative
firms will be able to discover or create new ways to do this. These
kinds of firms will always be one step ahead of the competition
because rival firms will often be trying to imitate these firms’ last
product differentiation moves while creative firms are working on
their next one.
The Imitability of Product
Differentiation
Valuable and rare bases of product differentiation must be costly to
imitate if they are to be sources of sustained competitive advantage.
Both direct duplication and substitution, as approaches to imitation,
are important in understanding the ability of product differentiation to
generate competitive advantages.
Direct Duplication of Product
Differentiation
As discussed in Chapter 4 , firms that successfully implement a
cost leadership strategy can choose whether they want to reveal this
strategic choice to their competition by adjusting their prices. If they
keep their prices high—despite their cost advantages—the existence
of those cost advantages may not be revealed to competitors. Of
course, other firms—such as Wal-Mart—that are confident that their
cost advantages cannot be duplicated at low cost are willing to
reveal their cost advantage through charging lower prices for their
products or services.


Firms pursuing product differentiation strategies usually do not have
this option. More often than not, the act of selling a highly
differentiated product or service reveals the basis upon which a firm
is trying to differentiate its products. In fact, most firms go to great
lengths to let their customers know how they are differentiating their
products, and in the process of informing potential customers they
also inform their competitors. Indeed, if competitors are not sure how
a firm is differentiating its product, all they need to do is purchase
that product themselves. Their own experience with the product—its
features and other attributes—will tell them all they need to know
about this firm’s product differentiation strategy.

Knowing how a firm is differentiating its products, however, does not
necessarily mean that competitors will be able to duplicate the
strategy at low cost. The ability to duplicate a valuable and rare
product differentiation strategy depends on the basis upon which a
firm is differentiating its products. As suggested in Table 5.2     ,
some bases of product differentiation—including the use of product
features—are almost always easy to duplicate. Others—including
product mix, links with other firms, product customization, product
complexity, and consumer marketing—can sometimes be costly to
duplicate. Finally, still other bases of product differentiation—
including links between functions, timing, location, reputation,
distribution channels, and service and support—are usually costly to
duplicate.

Table 5.2 Bases of Product Differentiation and the Cost of
Duplication
How costly it is to duplicate a particular basis of product
differentiation depends on the kinds of resources and capabilities
that basis uses. When those resources and capabilities are acquired
in unique historical settings, when there is some uncertainty about
how to build these resources and capabilities, or when these
resources and capabilities are socially complex in nature, then
product differentiation strategies that exploit these kinds of resources
and capabilities will be costly to imitate. These strategies can be a
source of sustained competitive advantage for a firm. However,
when a product differentiation strategy exploits resources and
capabilities that do not possess these attributes, then those
strategies are likely to be less costly to duplicate and, even if they
are valuable and rare, will only be sources of temporary competitive
advantage.
Bases of Product Differentiation That Are Easy
to Duplicate
The one basis of product differentiation in Table 5.2     that is
identified as almost always being easy to duplicate is product
features. The irony is that product features are by far the most
popular way for firms to try to differentiate their products. Rarely do
product features, by themselves, enable a firm to gain sustained
competitive advantages from a product differentiation strategy.


For example, virtually every one of the product features used in the
automobile industry to differentiate the products of different
automobile companies has been duplicated. Chrysler’s “cab forward”
design has been incorporated into the design of many
manufacturers. The curved, sporty styling of the Audi has surfaced in
cars manufactured by Lexus and General Motors. GM’s “On Star”
system has been duplicated by Mercedes. Mercedes’ crumple-zone
technology has become the industry standard, as has GM’s uni-body
construction method. Indeed, only the Mazda Miata, Nissan 370Z,
and Porsche 911 have remained unduplicated—and this has little to
do with the product features of these cars and much more to do with
their reputation.


The only time product features, per se, can be a source of sustained
competitive advantage for a firm is when those features are
protected by patents. However, as was discussed in Chapters 2
and 3   , even patents provide only limited protection from direct
duplication, except in very unusual settings.
Although product features, by themselves, are usually not a source
of sustained competitive advantage, they can be a source of a
temporary competitive advantage. During the period when a firm has
a temporary competitive advantage from implementing a product
differentiation strategy based on product features, it may be able to
attract new customers. Once these customers try the product, they
may discover other features of a firm’s products that make them
attractive. If these other features are costly to duplicate, then they
can be a source of sustained competitive advantage, even though
the features that originally attracted a customer to a firm’s products
will often be rapidly duplicated by competitors.
Bases of Product Differentiation That May Be
Costly to Duplicate
Some bases of product differentiation may be costly to duplicate, at
least in some circumstances. The first of these, listed in Table 5.2         ,
is product mix.

Duplicating the features of another firm’s products is usually not
difficult. However, if that firm brings a series of products to market, if
each of these products has unique features, and most important, if
the products are highly integrated with each other, then this mix of
products may be costly to duplicate. Certainly, the technological
integration of the mix of information technology products sold by IBM
and other firms has been relatively difficult to duplicate for firms that
do not manufacture all these products themselves.


However, when this basis of a product mix advantage is a common
customer, then duplication is often less difficult. Thus, although
having a mall that brings several stores together in a single place is
a source of competitive advantage over stand-alone stores, it is not a
competitive advantage over other malls that provide the same
service. Because there continue to be opportunities to build such
malls, the fact that malls make it easier for a common set of
customers to shop does not give any one mall a sustained
competitive advantage.


Links with other firms may also be costly to duplicate, especially
when those links depend on socially complex relationships. The
extent to which interfirm links can provide sources of sustained
competitive advantage is discussed in more detail in Chapter 11           .

In the same way, product customization and product complexity are
often easy-to-duplicate bases of product differentiation. However,
sometimes the ability of a firm to customize its products for one of its
customers depends on the close relationships it has developed with
those customers. Product customization of this sort depends on the
willingness of a firm to share often-proprietary details about its
operations, products, research and development, or other
characteristics with a supplying firm. Willingness to share this kind of
information, in turn, depends on the ability of each firm to trust and
rely on the other. The firm opening its operations to a supplier must
trust that that supplier will not make this information broadly available
to competing firms. The firm supplying customized products must
trust that its customer will not take unfair advantage of it. If two firms
have developed these kinds of socially complex relationships, and
few other firms have them, then links with other firms will be costly to
duplicate and a source of sustained competitive advantage.


The product customization seen in both enterprise software and in
high-end customized bicycles has these socially complex features. In
a real sense, when these products are purchased, a relationship with
a supplier is being established—a relationship that is likely to last a
long period. Once this relationship is established, partners are likely
to be unwilling to abandon it, unless, of course, a party to the
exchange tries to take unfair advantage of another party to that
exchange. This possibility is discussed in detail in Chapter 11       .
Finally, consumer marketing, though a very common form of product
differentiation, is often easy to duplicate. Thus, whereas Mountain
Dew has established itself as the “extreme games” drink, other
drinks, including Gatorade, have also begun to tap into this market
segment. Of course, every once in a while, an advertising campaign
or slogan, a point-of-purchase display, or some other attribute of a
consumer marketing campaign will unexpectedly catch on and
create greater-than-expected product awareness. In beer, marketing
campaigns such as “Tastes great, less filling,” “Why ask why?,” the
“Budweiser Frogs,” and “What’s Up?” have had these unusual
effects. If a firm, in relation with its various consumer marketing
agencies, is systematically able to develop these superior consumer
marketing campaigns, then it may be able to obtain a sustained
competitive advantage. However, if such campaigns are
unpredictable and largely a matter of a firm’s good luck, they cannot
be expected to be a source of sustained competitive advantage.
Bases of Product Differentiation That Are
Usually Costly to Duplicate
The remaining bases of product differentiation listed in Table 5.2
are usually costly to duplicate. Firms that differentiate their products
on these bases may be able to obtain sustained competitive
advantages.


Linkages across functions within a single firm are usually a costly-to-
duplicate basis of product differentiation. Whereas linkages with
other firms can be either easy or costly to duplicate, depending on
the nature of the relationship that exists between firms, linkages
across functions within a single firm usually require socially complex,
trusting relations. There are numerous built-in conflicts between
functions and divisions within a single firm. Organizations that have a
history and culture that support cooperative relations among
conflicting divisions may be able to set aside functional and
divisional conflicts to cooperate in delivering a differentiated product
to the market. However, firms with a history of conflict across
functional and divisional boundaries face a significant, and costly,
challenge in altering these socially complex, historical patterns.


Indeed, the research on architectural competence in pharmaceutical
firms suggests that not only do some firms possess this competence,
but that other firms do not. Moreover, despite the significant
advantages that accrue to firms with this competence, firms without
this competence have, on average, been unable to develop it. All this
suggests that such a competence, if it is also rare, is likely to be
costly to duplicate and thus a source of sustained competitive
advantage.


Timing is also a difficult-to-duplicate basis of product differentiation.
As suggested in Chapter 3       , it is difficult (if not impossible) to
recreate a firm’s unique history. If that history endows a firm with
special resources and capabilities it can use to differentiate its
products, this product differentiation strategy can be a source of
sustained competitive advantage. Rivals of a firm with such a timing-
based product differentiation advantage may need to seek
alternative ways to differentiate their products. Thus, it is not
surprising that universities that compete with the oldest universities
in the country find alternative ways to differentiate themselves—
through their size, the quality of their extramural sports, their
diversity—rather than relying on their age.


Location is often a difficult-to-duplicate basis of product
differentiation. This is especially the case when a firm’s location is
unique. For example, research on the hotel preferences of business
travelers suggests that location is a major determinant of the
decision to stay in a hotel. Hotels that are convenient to both major
transportation and commercial centers in a city are preferred, other
things being equal, to hotels in other types of locations. Indeed,
location has been shown to be a more important decision criterion
for business travelers than price. If only a few hotels in a city have
these prime locations and if no further hotel development is possible,
then hotels with these locations can gain sustained competitive
advantages.
Of all the bases of product differentiation listed in this chapter,
perhaps none is more difficult to duplicate than a firm’s reputation.
As suggested earlier, a firm’s reputation is a socially complex
relationship between a firm and its customers, based on years of
experience, commitment, and trust. Reputations are not built quickly,
nor can they be bought and sold. Rather, they can only be developed
over time by consistent investment in the relationship between a firm
and its customers. A firm with a positive reputation can enjoy a
significant competitive advantage, whereas a firm with a negative
reputation, or no reputation, may have to invest significant amounts
over long periods of time to match the differentiated firm.


Distribution channels can also be a costly-to-duplicate basis of
product differentiation, for at least two reasons. First, relations
between a firm and its distribution channels are often socially
complex and thus costly to duplicate. Second, the supply of
distribution channels may be limited. Firms that already have access
to these channels may be able to use them, but firms that do not
have such access may be forced to create their own or develop new
channels. Creating new channels or developing entirely new means
of distribution can be difficult and costly undertakings.20 These costs
are one of the primary motivations underlying many international
joint ventures (see Chapter 11      ).


Finally, level of service and support can be a costly-to-duplicate
basis of product differentiation. In most industries, it is usually not too
costly to provide a minimum level of service and support. In home
electronics, this minimum level of service can be provided by a
network of independent electronic repair shops. In automobiles, this
level of service can be provided by service facilities associated with
dealerships. In fast foods, this level of service can be provided by a
minimum level of employee training.


However, moving beyond this minimum level of service and support
can be difficult for at least two reasons. First, increasing the quality
of service and support may involve substantial amounts of costly
training. McDonald’s has created a sophisticated training facility
(Hamburger University) to maintain its unusually high level of service
in fast foods. General Electric has invested heavily in training for
service and support over the past several years. Many Japanese
automakers spent millions on training employees to help support
auto dealerships before they opened United States manufacturing
facilities.21


More important than the direct costs of the training needed to
provide high-quality service and support, these bases of product
differentiation often reflect the attitude of a firm and its employees
toward customers. In many firms throughout the world, the customer
has become “the bad guy.” This is, in many ways, understandable.
Employees tend to interact with their customers less frequently than
they interact with other employees. When they do interact with
customers, they are often the recipients of complaints directed at the
firm. In these settings, hostility toward the customer can develop.
Such hostility is, of course, inconsistent with a product differentiation
strategy based on customer service and support.
In the end, high levels of customer service and support are based on
socially complex relations between firms and customers. Firms that
have conflicts with their customers may face some difficulty
duplicating the high levels of service and support provided by
competing firms.
Substitutes for Product Differentiation
The bases of product differentiation outlined in this chapter vary in
how rare they are likely to be and in how difficult they are to
duplicate. However, the ability of the bases of product differentiation
to generate a sustained competitive advantage also depends on
whether low-cost substitutes exist.


Substitutes for bases of product differentiation can take two forms.
First, many of the bases of product differentiation listed in Table
5.1   can be partial substitutes for each other. For example, product
features, product customization, and product complexity are all very
similar bases of product differentiation and thus can act as
substitutes for each other. A particular firm may try to develop a
competitive advantage by differentiating its products on the basis of
product customization only to find that its customization advantages
are reduced as another firm alters the features of its products. In a
similar way, linkages between functions, linkages between firms, and
product mix, as bases of product differentiation, can also be
substitutes for each other. IBM links its sales, service, and consulting
functions to differentiate itself in the computer market. Other
computer firms, however, may develop close relationships with
computer service companies and consulting firms to close this
product differentiation advantage. Given that different bases of
product differentiation are often partial substitutes for each other, it is
not surprising that firms pursue these multiple bases of product
differentiation simultaneously.
Second, other strategies discussed throughout this book can be
substitutes for many of the bases of product differentiation listed in
Table 5.1   . One firm may try to gain a competitive advantage
through adjusting its product mix, and another firm may substitute
strategic alliances to create the same type of product differentiation.
For example, Southwest Airlines’ continued emphasis on friendly,
on-time, low-cost service and United Airlines’ emphasis on its links to
Lufthansa and other worldwide airlines through the Star Alliance can
both be seen as product differentiation efforts that are at least partial
substitutes.22


In contrast, some of the other bases of product differentiation
discussed in this chapter have few obvious close substitutes. These
include timing, location, distribution channels, and service and
support. To the extent that these bases of product differentiation are
also valuable, rare, and difficult to duplicate, they may be sources of
sustained competitive advantage.
Organizing to Implement Product
Differentiation
Objective 5.4 Describe how organizational structure, control
              processes, and compensation policies can be used
              to implement product differentiation strategies.

As was suggested in Chapter 3 , the ability to implement a
strategy depends on the adjustment of a firm’s structure, its
management controls, and its compensation policies to be consistent
with that strategy. Whereas strategy implementation for firms
adopting a cost leadership strategy focuses on reducing a firm’s
costs and increasing its efficiency, strategy implementation for a firm
adopting a product differentiation strategy must focus on innovation,
creativity, and product performance. Whereas cost-leading firms are
all about customer value, product-differentiating firms are all about
style. How the need for style is reflected in a firm’s structure,
controls, and compensation policies is summarized in Table 5.3 .


Table 5.3 Organizing to Implement Product Differentiation
Strategies
Organizational Structure and
Implementing Product
Differentiation
Both cost leadership and product differentiation strategies are
implemented using a functional, or U-form, organizational structure.
However, whereas the U-form structure used to implement a cost
leadership strategy has few layers, simple reporting relationships, a
small corporate staff, and a focus on only a few business functions,
the U-form structure for a firm implementing a product differentiation
strategy can be somewhat more complex. For example, these firms
often use temporary cross-divisional and cross-functional teams to
manage the development and implementation of new, innovative,
and highly differentiated products. These teams bring individuals
from different businesses and different functional areas together to
cooperate on a particular new product or service.

One firm that has used these cross-divisional and cross-functional
teams effectively is the British advertising agency WPP. WPP owns
several very large advertising agencies, several public relations
firms, several market research companies, and so forth. Each of
these businesses operates relatively independently in most areas.
However, the corporation has identified a few markets where cross-
divisional and cross-functional collaboration is important. One of
these is the health care market. To exploit opportunities in the health
care market, WPP, the corporation, forms teams of advertising
specialists, market research specialists, public relations specialists,
and so on, drawn from each of the businesses it owns. The resulting
cross-divisional teams are given the responsibility of developing new
and highly differentiated approaches to developing marketing
strategies for their clients in the health care industry.23


The creation of cross-divisional or cross-functional teams often
implies that a firm has implemented some form of matrix structure.
As suggested in Chapter 4 , a matrix structure exists when
individuals in a firm have two or more “bosses” simultaneously. Thus,
for example, if a person from one of WPP’s advertising agencies is
assigned temporarily to a cross-divisional team, that person has two
bosses: the head of the temporary team and the boss back in the
advertising agency. Managing two bosses simultaneously can be
very challenging, especially when they have conflicting interests.
And as we will see in Chapter 8     , the interests of these multiple
bosses will often conflict.


A particularly important form of the cross-divisional or cross-
functional team exists when this team is relieved of all other
responsibilities in the firm and focuses all its attention on developing
a new innovative product or service. The best-known example of this
approach to developing a differentiated product occurred at the
Lockheed Corporation during the 1950s and 1960s when small
groups of engineers were put on very focused teams to develop
sophisticated and top-secret military aircraft. These teams would
have a section of the Lockheed facility dedicated to their efforts and
designated as off-limits to almost all other employees. The joke was
that these intensive creative efforts were so engaging that members
of these teams actually would forget to shower—hence the name
“skunk works.” Skunk works have been used by numerous firms
to focus the creative energy required to develop and introduce highly
differentiated products.24
Management Controls and
Implementing Product
Differentiation
The first two management controls helpful for implementing product
differentiation listed in Table 5.3    —broad decision-making
guidelines and managerial freedom within those guidelines—often
go together. How some firms have used these kinds of controls to
build entirely new markets is described in the Strategy in Depth
feature.

Broad decision-making guidelines help bring order to what otherwise
might be a chaotic decision-making process. When managers have
no constraints in their decision making, they can make decisions that
are disconnected from each other and inconsistent with a firm’s
overall mission and objectives. This results in decisions that are
either not implemented or not implemented well.

However, if these decision-making guidelines become too narrow,
they can stifle creativity within a firm. As was suggested earlier, a
firm’s ability to differentiate its products is limited only by its creativity.
Thus, decision guidelines must be narrow enough to ensure that the
decisions made are consistent with a firm’s mission and objectives.
Yet these guidelines also must be broad enough so that managerial
creativity is not destroyed. In well-managed firms implementing
product differentiation strategies, if managerial decisions fall within
the broad decision-making guidelines in a firm, managers have the
right—in fact, are expected—to make creative decisions.
S T R AT E G Y I N D E P T H



So much innovation in both small and large organizations
focuses on repositioning a firm’s products along established
bases of competition—a more fuel-efficient car, a better-
cleaning shampoo, a less expensive insurance policy. While
these efforts can, for a time, be a source of product
differentiation, for reasons discussed in Chapter 3     , they
are usually not sustainable.
Going in Search of Blue Oceans

For this reason, two scholars—W. Chan Kim and Renee
Mauborgne—began studying firms that did not just reposition
their products in well-established competitive markets but,
instead, transcended their competition to identify entirely new
markets. They called these markets “blue oceans” because
they are not crowded with competitors seeking to improve
their positions but instead are empty of competitors and give
firms the opportunity to grow quickly. For these authors, blue
oceans emerge when managers discover that the only way to
beat the competition is to stop trying to beat the competition.

Examples of companies that have created blue oceans
include Cirque du Soleil—a firm that redefined what a circus
was to become an international entertainment sensation—
and Casella Wines—a firm whose [yellow tail] brand made
drinking wine a simple alternative to drinking beer. Both these
companies did not try to compete with established firms; they
created a new competitive space where these firms were
irrelevant.

So, how can a firm create a blue ocean? Kim and Mauborgne
suggest that firms begin by understanding the bases of
competition that exist within an industry already. In the United
States wine industry, for example, Casella identified seven
bases of competition: price, an elite image in packaging,
consumer marketing, aging quality of wine, vineyard prestige,
taste complexity, and a diverse range of wines. With these
bases of product differentiation identified, firms should then
ask four questions about competition in their industry:

    1. Which factors that the industry currently competes on
       should be eliminated?
    2. Which factors that the industry currently competes on
       should be reduced well below the industry’s standard?
    3. Which factors should be raised well above the
       industry’s standard?
    4. Which factors should be created that the industry has
       never offered?


By applying these four questions to the bases of competition
identified by Casella, this firm decided that elite packaging,
aging quality wine, vineyard prestige, and taste complexity all
complicated the wine drinking experience and could be
eliminated. They also created new bases for competition:
easy drinking, ease of selection, and fun and adventure. The
result was a wine brand—[yellow tail]—that has grown faster
than any other wine over the past 10 years.

Some firms have found it difficult to apply these principles to
develop blue oceans for their businesses. Nevertheless, by
systematically seeking ways to redefine the bases of
competition in an industry, some firms have been able to
create entirely new markets where competition does not
exist.25
A firm that has worked hard to reach this balance between chaos
and control is 3M. To provide guiding principles that define the range
of acceptable decisions at 3M, its senior managers have developed
a set of innovating principles. These are presented in Table 5.4
and define the boundaries of innovative chaos at 3M. Within these
boundaries, managers and engineers are expected to be creative
and innovative in developing highly differentiated products and
services.26


Table 5.4 Guiding Innovative Principles at 3M*
Firms can also facilitate the implementation of a product
differentiation strategy by adopting a policy of experimentation         .
Such a policy exists when firms are committed to engaging in
several related product differentiation efforts simultaneously. That
these product differentiation efforts are related suggests that a firm
has some vision about how a particular market is likely to unfold over
time. However, that there are several of these product differentiation
efforts occurring simultaneously suggests that a firm is not overly
committed to a particular narrow vision about how a market is going
to evolve. Rather, several different experiments facilitate the
exploration of different futures in a marketplace. Indeed, successful
experiments can actually help define the future evolution of a
marketplace.

Consider, for example, Charles Schwab, the innovative discount
broker. In the face of increased competition from full-service and
Internet-based brokerage firms, Schwab engaged in a series of
experiments to discover the next generation of products it could offer
to its customers and the different ways it could differentiate those
products. Schwab investigated software for simplifying online mutual
fund selection, online futures trading, and online company research.
It also formed an exploratory alliance with Goldman Sachs to
evaluate the possibility of enabling Schwab customers to trade in
initial public offerings. Not all of Schwab’s experiments led to the
introduction of highly differentiated products. For example, based on
some experimental investments, Schwab decided not to enter the
credit card market. However, by experimenting with a range of
possible product differentiation moves, it could develop a range of
new products for the fast-changing financial services industry.27
Compensation Policies and
Implementing Product
Differentiation Strategies
The compensation policies used to implement product differentiation
listed in Table 5.3    very much complement the organizational
structure and managerial controls listed in that table. For example, a
policy of experimentation has little impact on the ability of a firm to
implement product differentiation strategies if every time an
innovative experiment fails individuals are punished for taking risks.
Thus, compensation policies that reward risk-taking and celebrate a
creative flair help to enable a firm to implement its product
differentiation strategy.

Consider, for example, Nordstrom. Nordstrom is a department store
that celebrates the risk-taking and creative flair of its associates as
they try to satisfy their customers’ needs. The story is often told of a
Nordstrom sales associate who allowed a customer to return a set of
tires to the store because she wasn’t satisfied with them. What
makes this story interesting—whether or not it is true—is that
Nordstrom doesn’t sell tires. But this sales associate felt empowered
to make what was obviously a risky decision, and this decision is
celebrated within Nordstrom as an example of the kind of service
that Nordstrom’s customers should expect.
The last compensation policy listed in Table 5.3     is
multidimensional performance measurement. In implementing a cost
leadership strategy, compensation should focus on providing
appropriate incentives for managers and employees to reduce costs.
Various forms of cash payments, stock, and stock options can all be
tied to the attainment of specific cost goals and thus can be used to
create incentives for realizing cost advantages. Similar techniques
can be used to create incentives for helping a firm implement its
product differentiation advantage. However, because the
implementation of a product differentiation strategy generally
involves the integration of multiple business functions, often using
product development teams, compensation schemes designed to
help implement this strategy must generally recognize its
multifunctional character.

Thus, rather than focusing only on a single dimension of
performance, these firms often examine employee performance
along multiple dimensions simultaneously. Examples of such
dimensions include not only a product’s sales and profitability, but
customer satisfaction, an employee’s willingness to cooperate with
other businesses and functions within a firm, an employee’s ability to
effectively facilitate cross-divisional and cross-functional teams, and
an employee’s ability to engage in creative decision making.
Can Firms Implement Product
Differentiation and Cost
Leadership Simultaneously?
Objective 5.5 Discuss whether it is possible for a firm to implement
              cost leadership and product differentiation strategies
              simultaneously.

The arguments developed in Chapter 4 and in this chapter
suggest that cost leadership and product differentiation business
strategies, under certain conditions, can both create sustained
competitive advantages. Given the beneficial impact of both
strategies on a firm’s competitive position, an important question
becomes: Can a single firm simultaneously implement both
strategies? After all, if each separately can improve a firm’s
performance, wouldn’t it be better for a firm to implement both?
No: These Strategies Cannot Be
Implemented Simultaneously
A quick comparison of the organizational requirements for the
successful implementation of cost leadership strategies and product
differentiation strategies presented in Table 5.5 summarizes one
perspective on the question of whether these strategies can be
implemented simultaneously. In this view, the organizational
requirements of these strategies are essentially contradictory. Cost
leadership requires simple reporting relationships, whereas product
differentiation requires cross-divisional/cross-functional linkages.
Cost leadership requires intense labor supervision, whereas product
differentiation requires less intense supervision of creative
employees. Cost leadership -requires rewards for cost reduction,
whereas product differentiation requires rewards for creative flair. It
is reasonable to ask, “Can a single firm combine these multiple
contradictory skills and abilities?”

Table 5.5 The Organizational Requirements for Implementing
Cost Leadership and Product Differentiation Strategies
Some have argued that firms attempting to implement both
strategies will end up doing neither well. This logic suggests that
there are often only two ways to earn superior economic
performance within a single industry: (1) by selling high-priced
products and gaining small market share (product differentiation); or
(2) by selling low-priced products and gaining large market share
(cost leadership). Firms that do not make this choice of strategies
(medium price, medium market share) or that attempt to implement
both strategies will fail. These firms are said to be “stuck in the
middle.”28
Yes: These Strategies Can Be
Implemented Simultaneously
More recent work contradicts assertions about being “stuck in the
middle.” This work suggests that firms that are successful in both
cost leadership and product differentiation can often expect to gain a
sustained competitive advantage. This advantage reflects at least
two processes.
Differentiation, Market Share, and Low-
Cost Leadership
Firms able to successfully differentiate their products and services
are likely to see an increase in their volume of sales. This is
especially the case if the basis of product differentiation is attractive
to many potential customers. Thus, product differentiation can lead
to increased volumes of sales. It has already been established (in
Chapter 4 ) that an increased volume of sales can lead to
economies of scale, learning, and other forms of cost reduction. So,
successful product differentiation can, in turn, lead to cost reductions
and a cost leadership position.29


This is the situation that best describes McDonald’s. McDonald’s has
traditionally followed a product differentiation strategy, emphasizing
cleanliness, consistency, and fun in its fast-food outlets. Over time,
McDonald’s has used its differentiated product to become the market
share leader in the fast-food industry. This market position has
enabled it to reduce its costs, so that it is now the cost leader in fast
foods as well. Thus, McDonald’s level of profitability depends both
on its product differentiation strategy and its low-cost strategy. Either
one of these two strategies by itself would be difficult to overcome;
together they give McDonald’s a very costly-to-imitate competitive
advantage.30
Managing Organizational Contradictions
Product differentiation can lead to high market share and low costs.
It may also be the case that some firms develop special skills in
managing the contradictions that are part of simultaneously
implementing low-cost and product differentiation strategies. Some
recent research on automobile manufacturing helps describe these
special skills.31 Traditional thinking in automotive manufacturing was
that plants could either reduce manufacturing costs by speeding up
the assembly line or increase the quality of the cars they made by
slowing the line, emphasizing team-based production, and so forth.
In general, it was thought that plants could not simultaneously build
low-cost/high-quality (i.e., low-cost and highly differentiated)
automobiles.

Several researchers have examined this traditional wisdom. They
began by developing rigorous measures of the cost and quality
performance of automobile plants and then applied these measures
to more than 70 auto plants throughout the world that assembled
mid-size sedans. What they discovered was six plants in the entire
world that had, at the time this research was done, very low costs
and very high quality.32


In examining what made these six plants different from other auto
plants, the researchers focused on a broad range of manufacturing
policies, management practices, and cultural variables. Three
important findings emerged. First, these six plants had the best
manufacturing technology hardware available—robots, laser-guided
paint machines, and so forth. However, because many of the plants
in the study had these same technologies, manufacturing technology
by itself was not enough to make these six plants special. In
addition, policies and procedures at these plants implemented a
range of highly participative, group-oriented management
techniques, including participative management, team production,
and total quality management. As important, employees in these
plants had a sense of loyalty and commitment toward the plant they
worked for—a belief that they would be treated fairly by their plant
managers.


What this research shows is that firms can simultaneously implement
cost leadership and product differentiation strategies if they learn
how to manage the contradictions inherent in these two strategies.
The management of these contradictions, in turn, depends on
socially complex relations among employees, between employees
and the technology they use, and between employees and the firm
for which they work. These relations are not only valuable (because
they enable a firm to implement cost leadership and differentiation
strategies) but also socially complex and thus likely to be costly to
imitate and a source of sustained competitive advantage.


Recently, many scholars have backed away from the original “stuck
in the middle” arguments and now suggest that low-cost firms must
have competitive levels of product differentiation to survive and that
product differentiation firms must have competitive levels of cost to
survive.33 For example, the fashion design company Versace—the
ultimate product differentiating firm—has hired a new CEO and
controller to help control its costs.34
Summary
Product differentiation exists when customers perceive a particular
firm’s products to be more valuable than other firms’ products.
Although differentiation can have several bases, it is, in the end,
always a matter of customer perception. Bases of product
differentiation include: (1) attributes of the products or services a firm
sells (including product features, product complexity, the timing of
product introduction, and location); (2) relations between a firm and
its customers (including product customization, consumer marketing,
and reputation); and (3) links within and between firms (including
links between functions, links with other firms, a firm’s product mix,
its distribution system, and its level of service and support).
However, in the end, product differentiation is limited only by the
creativity of a firm’s managers.


Product differentiation is valuable to the extent that it enables a firm
to set its prices higher than what it would otherwise be able to. Each
of the bases of product differentiation identified can be used to
neutralize environmental threats and exploit environmental
opportunities. The rarity and imitability of bases of product
differentiation vary. Highly imitable bases of product differentiation
include product features. Somewhat imitable bases include product
mix, links with other firms, product customization, and consumer
marketing. Costly-to-imitate bases of product differentiation include
linking business functions, timing, location, reputation, service, and
support.

The implementation of a product differentiation strategy involves
management of organizational structure, management controls, and
compensation policies. Structurally, it is not unusual for firms
implementing product differentiation strategies to use cross-
divisional and cross-functional teams, together with teams that are
focused exclusively on a particular product differentiation effort, so-
called “skunk works.” Managerial controls that provide free
managerial decision making within broad decision-making guidelines
can be helpful in implementing product differentiation strategies, as
is a policy of experimentation. Finally, compensation policies that
tolerate risk-taking and a creative flair and that measure employee
performance along multiple dimensions simultaneously can also be
helpful in implementing product differentiation strategies.

A variety of organizational attributes is required to successfully
implement a product differentiation strategy. Some have argued that
contradictions between these organizational characteristics and
those required to implement a cost leadership strategy mean that
firms that attempt to do both will perform poorly. More recent
research has noted the relationship between product differentiation,
market share, and low costs and has observed that some firms have
learned to manage the contradictions between cost leadership and
product differentiation.
MyLab Management
Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management to
complete the problems marked with this icon   .
Challenge Questions
   5.1. Although cost leadership is perhaps less relevant for
   firms pursuing product differentiation, costs are not totally
   irrelevant. What advice about costs would you give a firm
   pursuing a product differentiation strategy?
       5.2. Product features are often the focus of product
   differentiation efforts. Yet product features are among the
   easiest-to-imitate bases of product differentiation and thus
   among the least likely bases of product differentiation to be a
   source of sustained competitive advantage. This appears
   paradoxical. How can you resolve this paradox?
   5.3. What are the strengths and weaknesses of using
   regression analysis and hedonic prices to describe the bases
   of product differentiation?
   5.4. Chamberlin used the term “monopolistic competition” to
   describe firms pursuing a product differentiation strategy in a
   competitive industry. However, it is usually the case that firms
   that operate in monopolies are less efficient and less
   competitive than those that operate in more competitive
   settings (see Chapter 3 ). Why would this same problem
   exist for firms operating in a “monopolistic competition”
   context?
       5.5. Implementing a product differentiation strategy seems
   to require just the right mix of control and creativity. How do
   you know if a firm has the right mix?
5.6. Is it possible to evaluate the mix of control and creativity
when implementing a product differentiation strategy before
problems associated with being out of balance manifest
themselves? If yes, how? If no, why not?
5.7. A firm with a highly differentiated product can increase
the volume of its sales. Increased sales volumes can enable a
firm to reduce its costs. High volumes with low costs can lead
a firm to have very high profits, some of which the firm can
use to invest in further differentiating its products. What
advice would you give a firm whose competition is enjoying
this product differentiation and cost leadership advantage?
Problem Set
  5.8. For each of the listed products, describe at least two ways they are
  differentiated.
       a. Ben & Jerry’s ice cream
      b. The Hummer H2
      c. The X-Games
      d. The movies Animal House and Caddyshack
      e. Frederick’s of Hollywood
       f. Taco Bell


  5.9. Which, if any, of the bases of product differentiation in the previous
  question are likely to be sources of sustained competitive advantage?
  Why?
  5.10. Suppose you obtained the following regression results, where the
  starred (*) coefficients are statistically significant. What could you say
  about the bases of product differentiation in this market? (Hint: A
  regression coefficient is statistically significant when it is so large that its
  effect is very unlikely to have emerged by chance.)

   House Price = 125,000 * + 15,000 * (More than three bedrooms)


                     + $18,000 * (More than 3,500 square feet)


                     + $150 (Has plumbing) + $180 (Has lawn)


                     + 17,000 * (Lot larger than 1/2 acre)




  How much would you expect to pay for a four-bedroom, 3,800-square-foot
  house on a one-acre lot? How much for a four-bedroom, 2,700-square-
  foot house on a quarter-acre lot? Do these results say anything about the
  sustainability of competitive advantages in this market?
  5.11. Which of the following management controls and compensation
  policies is consistent with implementing cost leadership? With product
differentiation? With both cost leadership and product differentiation? With
neither cost leadership nor product differentiation?
    a. Firm-wide stock options
    b. Compensation that rewards each function separately for meeting its
        own objectives
     c. A detailed financial budget plan
    d. A document that describes, in detail, how the innovation process
        will unfold in a firm
    e. A policy that reduces the compensation of a manager who
        introduces a product that fails in the market
     f. A policy that reduces the compensation of a manager who
        introduces several products that fail in the market
    g. The creation of a purchasing council to discuss how different
        business units can reduce their costs

5.12. Identify three industries or markets where it is unlikely that firms will
be able to simultaneously implement cost leadership and product
differentiation. Which firms in this industry are implementing cost
leadership strategies? Which are implementing product differentiation
strategies? Are any firms “stuck in the middle”? If yes, which ones? If no,
why not? Are any firms implementing both cost leadership and product
differentiation strategies? If yes, which ones? If no, why not?
MyLab Management
Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management for Auto-graded
writing questions as well as the following Assisted-graded writing
questions:

        5.13. How can product differentiation be used to
      neutralize environmental threats and exploit environmental
      opportunities?
        5.14. How can organizational structure be used to
      implement product differentiation strategies?
End Notes
1    Sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/701985/000070198516000051/16130201610k.htm
Accessed January 24, 2017
2    See Ono, Y. (1996). “Who really makes that cute little beer? You’d be surprised.” The
Wall Street Journal, April 15, pp. A1+ Since this 1996 article, some of these craft beer
companies have changed the way they manufacture the beers to be more consistent with
the image they are trying to project.
3    See Porter, M. E. (1980). Competitive strategy. New York: Free Press; and Caves, R.
E., and P. Williamson. (1985). “What is product differentiation, really?” Journal of Industrial
Organization Economics, 34, pp. 113–132.
4    www.usatoday.com/story/money/cars/2016/12/12/six-hot-car-technology-trends-
watch-2017/95323726/ Accessed January 25, 2017
5    Lieberman, M. B., and D. B. Montgomery. (1988). “First-mover advantages.” Strategic
Management Journal, 9, pp. 41–58.
6    Carroll, P. (1993). Big blues: The unmaking of IBM. New York: Crown Publishers.
7    These ideas were first developed in Hotelling, H. (1929). “Stability in competition.”
Economic Journal, 39, pp. 41–57; and Ricardo, D. (1817). Principles of political economy
and taxation. London: J. Murray.
8    See Gunther, M. (1998). “Disney’s call of the wild.” Fortune, April 13, pp. 120–124.
9    D. Hay and D. Morris (1979). Industrial economics: Theory and evidence. Oxford:
Oxford University Press; K. Cowling and J. Cubbin (1971). “Price, quality, and advertising
competition.” Economica, 38, pp. 378–394.
10    The idea of reputation is explained in Klein, B., and K. Leffler. (1981). “The role of
market forces in assuring contractual performance.” Journal of Political Economy, 89, pp.
615–641.
11    See Robichaux M. (1995). “It’s a book! A T-shirt! A toy! No, just MTV trying to be
Disney.” The Wall Street Journal, February 8, pp. A1+.
12    See Henderson, R., and I. Cockburn. (1994). “Measuring competence? Exploring firm
effects in pharmaceutical research.” Strategic Management Journal, 15, pp. 63–84.
13    Kotler, P. (1986). Principles of marketing. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall.
14    Porter, M. E., and R. Wayland. (1991). “Coca-Cola vs. Pepsi-Cola and the soft drink
industry.” Harvard Business School Case No. 9-391-179.
15    Ghemawat, P. (1993). “Sears, Roebuck and Company: The merchandise group.”
Harvard Business School Case No. 9-794-039.
16    E. H. Chamberlin (1933). The economics of monopolistic competition. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press; J. Robinson (1934). “What is perfect competition?” Quarterly Journal of
Economics, 49, pp. 104–120.
17    Welsh, J. (1998). “Office-paper firms pursue elusive goal: Brand loyalty.” The Wall
Street Journal, September 21, p. B6.
18    J. Angwin (2003). “Some ‘enlargement pills’ pack impurities.” The Wall Street
Journal, April 8, p. B1; G. Pisano (1991). “Nucleon, Inc.” Harvard Business School Case No.
9-692-041.
19    See White, E., and K. Palmer. (2003). “U.S. retailing 101.” The Wall Street Journal,
August 12, pp. B1+.
20    See Hennart, J. F. (1988). “A transaction cost theory of equity joint ventures.”
Strategic Management Journal, 9, pp. 361–374.
21    Deutsch, C. H. (1991). “How is it done? For a small fee . . . ” New York Times,
October 27, p. 25 and Armstrong, L. (1991). “Services: The customer as ‘Honored Guest.”’
BusinessWeek, October 25, p. 104.
22    See Yoffie, D. (1994). “Swissair’s alliances (A).” Harvard Business School Case No.
9-794-152.
23    “WPP—Integrating icons.” Harvard Business School Case No. 9-396-249.
24    Orosz, J. J. (2002). “Big funds need a ‘Skunk Works’ to stir ideas.” Chronicle of
Philanthropy, June 27, p. 47.
25    W. Chan Kim and Renee Mauborgne (2005). Blue ocean strategy. Cambridge:
Harvard Business School Press.
26    Van de Ven, A., D. Polley, R. Garud, and S. Venkatraman. (1999). The innovation
journey. New York: Oxford, pp. 198–200.
27    Position, L. L. (1999). “David S. Pottruck.” BusinessWeek, September 27, EB 51.
28    Porter, M. E. (1980). Competitive strategy. New York: Free Press.
29    Hill, C. W. L. (1988). “Differentiation versus low cost or differentiation and low cost: A
contingency framework.” Academy of Management Review, 13(3), pp. 401–412.
30    Gibson, R. (1995). “Food: At McDonald’s, new recipes for buns, eggs.” The Wall
Street Journal, June 13, p. B1.
31    Originally discussed in the Research Made Relevant feature in Chapter 3.
32    Womack, J. P., D. I. Jones, and D. Roos. (1990). The machine that changed the
world. New York: Rawson.
33    Porter, M. E. (1985). Competitive advantage. New York: Free Press.
34    Agins, T., and A. Galloni. (2003). “Facing a squeeze, Versace struggles to trim the
fat.” The Wall Street Journal, September 30, pp. A1+.
Chapter 6 Flexibility and Real
Options
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to:


               6.1 Define strategic flexibility and real options.
               6.2 Specify the conditions under which strategic
               flexibility and real options will be valuable for
               firms.
               6.3 Identify when strategic flexibility and real
               options can be a source of sustained competitive
               advantage.
               6.4 Identify the organizational challenges
               associated with implementing strategic flexibility
               and a real options strategy.




      MyLab Management
         Improve Your Grade!


      If your instructor is using MyLab Management, visit
      www.pearson.com/mylab/management for
      simulations, tutorials, and end-of-chapter problems.
Why Is Netflix called Netflix?




Francis Vachon/Alamy Stock Photo




For the first ten years of its existence, everyone had one
question about Netflix: Why was Netflix called Netflix?
Everyone got the “flix” part of the name—“flix” was slang for
movies, and from its founding in 1997, Netflix was in the
movie distribution business. Its business model was to take
orders for DVD rentals online and then fulfill those orders by
delivering DVDs to consumers through the mail. But the “net”
had nothing to do with how Netflix distributed its DVDs. A
better name for Netflix might have been “Mailflix” or
“Letterflix.”

In fact, Netflix was very successful at this DVD by mail
distribution model. By 2000, it was challenging the leader in
the DVD rental business—Blockbuster. Blockbuster had retail
stores that consumers would visit to rent DVDs. They would
also have to return these DVDs to the same store. Having
DVDs delivered through the mail eliminated these two trips
and, except for delays while rented DVDs were sent through
the mail, was infinitely more convenient than renting DVDs at
retail stores.

In the late 1990s, Blockbuster had tried to duplicate Netflix’s
DVD distribution model. It failed. Apparently, the fulfillment
logistics in the DVDs by mail business—though perfected by
Netflix—were very difficult for Blockbuster to imitate. Rather
than trying to duplicate Netflix, in 2000 Blockbuster tried to
buy Netflix for $50 million. The founders of Netflix—Reed
Hastings and Marc Randolph—declined the offer. Instead,
Netflix continued its operations in the DVD rental business,
continuously exceeded customer expectations, built a well-
recognized brand in the entertainment industry, developed an
understanding of the movie production business, and
generally bided its time until it could realize its full objectives.

In 2002, Netflix went public with an IPO that valued the
company at over $309 million. Netflix received this valuation—
over six times greater than Blockbuster’s offer from two years
earlier—not because of its DVD rental business, but because
its success in the DVD rental business had positioned Netflix
to successfully enter the online video streaming market—a
market that did not yet exist, but a market that most observers
believed could be important in the entertainment industry in
the future. The problem was that, in 2002, fast internet
services were still not widely available to consumers. Without
a fast internet, there could not be online video streaming.

From 2002 to 2007, Netflix invested in the technology needed
to run an online video streaming service. During this same
time, fast internet services became more widely available.
Finally, in 2007 Netflix was true to its name and started an
online video streaming service—“flix” were actually being
distributed over the “net.”

Fast forward another ten years. By 2017, Netflix had over 93
million people who subscribed to its video streaming services.
It was available in over 190 countries around the world. In
2016, it introduced 126 original series—more than any other
network on television or cable. And despite significant
competition from Hulu, Amazon Prime, YouTube, and a
variety of other streaming services, Netflix’s market value in
2016 was $41.1 billion—a far cry from the $50 million
Blockbuster—a company that no longer exists—offered for
the firm in 2000.1
Could Netflix have entered the video streaming
industry in 2007, without a history of
successfully competing in the DVD rental
business? Maybe, although it is hard to imagine
that it would have been able to raise the capital
needed to develop online streaming technology
without its track record in DVD rentals. But by
successfully competing in the DVD rental
market, Netflix created the option for it to invest,
and ultimately compete in, the online streaming
market. Put another way, Neflix’s original
business strategy created the flexibility that it
needed to consider, and then to enter, the online
streaming market.

The two business level strategies discussed in
this book so far—cost leadership and product
differentiation—require both focus and
commitment to implement. Firms that implement
these strategies are committing to a way of
doing business, a way of organizing themselves,
and even an organizational culture.
Obviously, firms that choose either of these
strategies are not likely to change them
frequently.
This chapter examines an alternative approach
to business level strategy. Instead of focused
commitment, this approach focuses on flexibility.
Strategic flexibility implies that rather than
committing to a single course of action, a firm
maintains multiple strategic options
simultaneously and delays committing to a
particular course of action until uncertainty about
the value of that option is reduced. Netflix
maintained the option of investing in the online
streaming business all the time it was in the
DVD through the mail rental business. Once
uncertainty about demand for the online
streaming business was reduced by the
widespread introduction of fast internet, Netflix
exercised its option, invested in the required
technology, and began online video streaming.

This emphasis on maintaining options that
create strategic flexibility can be thought of as a
third generic business level strategy, in addition
to cost leadership and product differentiation.
What is Strategic Flexibility?
Objective 6.1 Define strategic flexibility and real options.


A firm has strategic flexibility when it can choose among several
different strategic options.2 For example, a firm may choose to
implement a product differentiation strategy, but not completely
commit to a single basis for differentiating its product. Thus,
Progressive Insurance seems mostly committed to “Flo” as its
primary advertising spokesperson in the U.S. market, but alternative
approaches to differentiating its auto insurance products are
explored periodically (e.g., the Progressive Insurance “box” as a
spokesperson). At some point, Progressive might exercise the option
it has created through investing in these advertising alternatives by
abandoning “Flo.”3


Firms may also create flexibility in their cost leadership strategy. This
could happen, for example, when it is not clear if the lowest cost
position for a firm would be created by outsourcing production to
another firm or by bringing that production in-house. To create
flexibility, such a firm might outsource some of its production, bring
some of its production in-house, and then closely watch the cost of
these two. This experiment may lead a firm to commit to one of
these approaches to obtaining a cost leadership position.4
Alternatively, a firm may choose to maintain both forms of
production, since the cost of these different approaches might
change over time in some unpredictable ways. If one approach to
manufacturing becomes much less costly than the other, this firm
could transfer some of its production to the low-cost alternative—at
least if that alternative remains less costly.


Indeed, since all the strategies examined in this book—both at the
business and corporate level—involve choices among alternatives,
strategic flexibility can be an important consideration for all of them.
If it is not clear which of these alternatives are superior—vertically
integrate or not (Chapter 8 ), diversify or not (Chapters 9
and 10 ), form an alliance or not (Chapter 11 ), and acquire or
not (Chapter 12 )—then strategic flexibility may be an important
consideration in implementing these strategies.
Types of Flexibility
For a firm to have strategic flexibility, it must possess strategic
options . Strategic options exist when firms have the ability, but
not the obligation, to invest in a particular strategy. Those familiar
with financial options logic will note a parallel between the definition
of strategic options and financial options. Indeed, strategic options
can be thought of as an example of a real option. A real option
exists when a firm has the ability, but not the obligation, to invest in
real assets of some type. Real assets are tangible resources that
can have an impact on a firm’s production, including land, buildings,
raw materials, finished goods inventories, distribution systems,
information technology, and so forth.5


Of course, strategic flexibility created by a firm having options can
take many forms. Some of the most important types of flexibility a
firm may have, and examples of actions that create these different
types of flexibility, are listed in Table 6.1   .6


Table 6.1 Types of Flexibility and Examples of Actions That Can
Create Each Type
For example, a firm can make strategic choices that enhance its
ability to defer additional investment in a strategy until some later
period. This is the option to defer . An oil and gas company
creates this option when it leases land for potential exploration and
oil extraction instead of buying it. By leasing the land, this firm defers
the decision about whether to fully invest in exploration and
extraction on that land until after uncertainty about future oil prices is
resolved and until after the production potential of that land is more
completely understood. An oil company that buys this land instead of
leasing it forgoes the option of not investing in this land in the future
and thus is less flexible than the firm that leases the land.

Firms can also make choices that enhance their ability to “grow” an
investment in the future, should that option turn out to be valuable.
This is the option to grow     . Thus, for example, a manufacturing
firm creates this option by building a plant with a capacity that can be
increased at relatively low cost. This can be done by, say, running
several smaller manufacturing lines in a single plant simultaneously
and bringing them on line as demand increases.

Firms can also make choices that enhance their ability to get smaller
and reduce investment in a strategy, should that option turn out to be
valuable in the future. This is the option to contract . One way to
create this option is to use contract and temporary employees
instead of full-time employees. In most countries, contract and
temporary employees are much less costly to lay off than full-time
employees. Indeed, in some countries—including Germany and
France—full-time employment growth is significantly limited by the
costliness of laying off full-time employees. For this reason, firms
that employ a high percentage of contract and temporary employees
are more flexible than firms that employ only full-time employees.

A firm can also make choices that enhance its ability to shut down
and restart a business should this option be valuable in the future.
This is the option to shut down and restart . Compare, for
example, two firms: one outsources its distribution to a company that
distributes only its products and a second that outsources its
distribution to a company that distributes the products of numerous
firms. Suppose that market conditions compel both of these firms to
shut down their operations for some period. Which of these two firms
is likely to have a lower cost of restarting operations? Because the
first firm’s distributor was probably unable to distribute anything
during this downtime, it may have suffered significantly. Indeed, it
may not have even survived this downtime. The second firm’s
distributor, on the other hand, because it distributes the products of
numerous firms, was probably able to survive during this downtime.
Upon restart, the second firm can simply reestablish its relationship
with its distributor and go on as before. The first firm may have to
find an entirely new distributor. Thus, the cost of restarting the
business for the second firm is likely to be much lower than the cost
of restarting the business for the first firm. In this sense, working with
a firm that distributes the products of numerous firms has the effect
of increasing the flexibility of a firm to shut down and restart a
business should it decide this is necessary to do.
Firms can also make choices that enhance their ability to abandon a
particular strategy. This is the option to abandon . For example, a
firm creates this option if it builds a manufacturing plant that employs
only general-purpose machinery. Compared to highly customized
manufacturing equipment, general-purpose machinery has
significant salvage and resale value. The ability to extract more
residual value from an investment in a strategy reduces the cost of
abandoning that strategy and thus has the effect of increasing the
flexibility of a firm to abandon a strategy should it decide to do so.

Finally, a firm can also make choices that enhance its ability to
expand its strategy beyond its current boundaries. This is the option
to expand . Suppose a pharmaceutical firm does the R&D
necessary to create Product A. This firm creates the option to
expand if the R&D it invested in to create Product A can, with some
additional investment, be used to create Products B and C in the
future, should these products turn out to be valuable. A firm that
does not invest in the original R&D does not have the flexibility to
decide whether to invest to create Products B and C in the future.

This example also shows that the actions a firm takes can create
more than one type of flexibility simultaneously. Thus, not only does
investing in Product A have the effect of creating the option to
expand, it also has the effect of creating the option to defer
investment (in Products B and C) until some future date.
The Value of Strategic Flexibility
Objective 6.2 Specify the conditions under which strategic flexibility
                and real options will be valuable for firms.

Strategic flexibility is most likely to be valuable under conditions of
uncertainty. In this context, the concepts of risk and uncertainty need
to be distinguished. A decision-making setting is said to be risky
when the outcome of that decision is not known with certainty, but
the possible outcomes associated with that decision, and their
probability, are known before a decision is made.7


Gambling at a casino is the classic example of a risky decision.
When a bet is made, the outcome of the pull of a lever, a throw of the
dice, or the turn of a card are not known with certainty. However, all
possible outcomes, and their probability, are known at the time a bet
is made. With this information, it is possible to calculate the expected
return of making a bet with great precision.
Incorporating Risk in Strategic
Decision Making
The concept of risk has been implicitly incorporated into much of the
discussion of strategy thus far in this book. It began with the
discussion of performance in Chapter 1 . There it was suggested
that one way to characterize a firm’s performance is to compare its
return to its weighted average cost of capital. One of the major
components of a firm’s weighted average cost of capital is its cost of
equity, and a firm’s cost of equity can be estimated using the capital
asset pricing model (CAPM). The CAPM, in turn, includes a measure
of how a firm’s historical returns are correlated with the historical
returns of a diversified portfolio of stocks, i.e., β This coefficient, β is
one measure of the historical riskiness of a firm.

In general, the most common way risk is introduced to strategic
analyses is through present value analysis. The present value of
the cash flows generated by choosing and implementing a particular
strategy is equal to the sum of those cash flows, discounted by how
risky they are. The riskiness of these cash flows is represented by
the discount rate, k, in the following equation:

                                    N
                                         (NCF, t)
                       NPVj = ∑
                                                   t
                                         (1 + k)
                                   t=0




Where,
NPVj =    present value of Firm j’s cash flows

N =   life of an investment

NCFj,t =    net cash flow of Firm j and time t

K =   discount rate


If the cash flows generated by choosing and implementing a
particular strategy are not risky, then k in this equation is very small,
the denominator in this equation gets close to one, and no
discounting occurs. If these cash flows are very risky, then the
denominator gets larger and significant discounting occurs.
Limitations of Risk Based
Decision Making Under
Uncertainty
This approach to incorporating risk into strategic analyses does not
work under conditions of uncertainty. A decision making setting is
said to be uncertain when the outcome of that decision is not
known with certainty, and the possible outcomes associated with that
decision, and their probability, are also not known before a decision
is made. Using the casino gambling analogy introduced earlier,
under uncertainty it is not possible to calculate the expected return
on a bet because you may not even know what game you are
playing, or even if you did, the rules of that game might change in
unpredictable ways. Using present value analysis does not work
under conditions of uncertainty for three reasons.

First, under conditions of uncertainty, cash flow projections are
simply unreliable. Consider the following scenario. If General Motors
anticipates increased demand for a particular model, it may consider
adding a third shift. Assuming that GM has been operating two shifts
for some time, and assuming that GM has considerable experience
adding shifts in a plant, it seems reasonable to expect that GM’s
management will have a good sense of the costs of implementing
and running a new shift at an established plant as well as the
revenues such an increase in production should produce. That is,
GM’s managers should be able to anticipate the net cash flow that
opening a new shift should generate.

However, suppose that instead of adding a new shift producing an
already existing model, GM is trying to decide whether or not it
should add a shift to build an entirely new product—something that
uses new technology in a new way for new customers in ways that
are new to both GM and to the world. The net cash flows of such
new to GM/new to the world innovation will be very difficult to
anticipate. In these uncertain settings, unforeseeable costs and
opportunities may affect realized cash flows in ways that could not
have been anticipated.


Second, under conditions of uncertainty, the riskiness of the cash
flows generated cannot be reliably anticipated. In traditional risk-
based logic, the cash flows generated by choosing and implementing
different strategies are all assigned into different risk categories. The
riskiest cash flows receive the largest discount rates, the least risky
cash flows receive the smallest discount rates. But under conditions
of uncertainty, one of the things you do not know is how risky a
particular cash flow is. One might conclude that in this setting, the
prudent thing to do would be to assume cash flows are very risky
and move forward in decision making on that basis.8 However,
adopting this assumption, ex ante, may lead firms to not choose and
implement strategies that generate high levels of positive cash flow
at low risk, ex post.
Finally, the present value approach to incorporating risk into strategic
decision making implicitly assumes that decisions about strategies
and how they are implemented are made all at once, at the moment
a strategic choice is made and implemented. In reality, strategic
choices are often made over time, in a staged manner. The first
decision in implementing a strategy, for example, may eliminate
some of a firm’s strategic options while retaining others. In the face
of these multiple second stage options, firms need to make
additional strategic choices, choices which may decrease—or even
increase—a firm’s future strategic flexibility. And so it goes
throughout the life of a strategy. An approach to strategic decision
making that requires that the implications of that strategy through its
entire life must be known at the time it is chosen fails to recognize
that the world can change in unpredictable ways, and that retaining
flexibility in the face of this uncertainty by staging strategic decision
making can create enormous value for a firm.
Valuing Flexibility
Thus, while present value approaches do a wonderful job of
incorporating risk into strategic decision making, they cannot be
applied under conditions of uncertainty. How then can strategic
flexibility in these uncertain settings be valued? Two approaches are
presented in this chapter. However, both build on the logic for valuing
financial options summarized in the Strategy in Depth      feature.
S T R AT E G Y I N D E P T H




The Black-Scholes Model for Valuing Financial Options

It has been shown that the value of an option depends on five
variables:

     1. the value of the underlying financial asset, S (for
         example, the value of the stock on which a stock
         option is written);
      2. the option’s exercise price, X;
      3. the time to an option’s maturity, T;
      4. the variance in the price of the asset on which an
        option is written, σ 2 (for example, the variance in the
        price of the stock on which a stock option is written);
        and
      5. the risk-free rate of interest, rf .


These variables combine to determine an option’s value
through the following formula:
                                          −rf T
                c = SN (d1 ) − [Xe                  N (d2 )]




where

c =   value of this option

S =    value of the underlying asset

X =    Exercise price of the option

T =    Time to maturity

rf =   risk-free rate

                           In(S/X)+rf T
                                                1
                   d1 =                   +         σ √T
                                                2
                               σ √T


                   d2 = d1 − σ√T



N (d1 )   and N (d2 ) are the cumulative area of d1 and d2
respectively, in a normal distribution. This is known as the
Black-Scholes formula           .
Although this equation can look formidable, its application can
be simplified into three steps. First, identify the inputs needed
to calculate d1 and d1 Second, using a chart of the areas
under the normal curve, calculate N (d1 ) and N (d2 ) Third,
calculate the option value.

This is done for an option with the following attributes: (1) the
value of the underlying asset, S (for example, the current
stock price if this is a stock option), is $50; (2) the exercise
price of this option, X, is $45; (3) the time to this option’s
maturity, T, is three months (expressed as a percentage of
one year, T   = .25      ); (4) the variance in the price of the
underlying asset, σ 2 is 20 percent; and (5) the risk-free
interest rate, rf   =   , is 6 percent.9

Putting these values into the equation for estimating d1 and
d2   yields

                           ln(50/45)+.06(.25)
                d1 =                            +
                                √.2√.25

                           1
                               (√.2√.25)
                           2

                    = .54 + .11

                    = .65

                d2 = d2 − σ√2

                    = .65 − (√.2√.25) = .43




Substituting these numbers back into equation 6.2 yields

                                           rf T
                c = SN (.65) − Xe                 N (.43)
N (d1 )    and N (d1 ) are calculated using the chart of the
areas under the normal curve presented in Table 6.2            and
available as a built-in option on many calculators. Table 6.2
presents the area under the normal curve between the mean
of this distribution and points to the right of this distribution for
d1 = .65     and d1   = .43   Thus, the area between the mean of
this distribution (0) and .65 standard deviation to the right of
this mean (remember, d1        = .65   ) is approximately .242. The
total area under this curve to the left of this mean is .5. Thus,
the cumulative (that is, total) area under this curve for
d1 = .65 is .5 + .242 = .742. Thus, N (d1 )          = .742.

Repeating this procedure yields the result that
N (d2 ) = .665.


TA B L E

6.2 Areas under the Standard Normal Distribution
Function
Armed with these estimates of N (d1 ) and N (d2         ),   the value
of this option can be calculated as

                                      −.06(.25)
            c = 50 (.742) − [45e                  (.665)]

              = 37.10 − 45 (.9851) (.665)

              = 37.10 − 28.48

              = 7.62



Thus, the value of this option is $7.62. That is, an investor
should be willing to pay up to $7.62 for the right, but not the
obligation, to buy a stock that is currently selling for $50 for
$45 in three months, given the historical variance in this
stock’s value and the risk-free interest rate.10
Qualitatively Valuing Strategic Flexibility
Before discussing how to value strategic flexibility quantitatively, it is
helpful to reflect on the implications of the Black Scholes model for
valuing financial options for qualitatively valuing real strategic
options. Despite its apparent complications, the Black Scholes model
for valuing financial options suggests that the value of these options
depends on just five factors: the exercise price of an option (X), the
cash flows created by exercising an option (S), the time for an option
to mature (T), the risk free rate of return (rf ) and variance in the
price of the underlying asset (σ 2 ) As shown in Table 6.3       , each of
these variables have meaning in understanding the value of strategic
flexibility created by a firm’s real options.


Table 6.3 Characterizing the Value of a Real Option Subjectively
First, the lower the cost of exercising a real option (X), the greater is
the value of that real option. This is because it is more likely for real
options with low exercise prices, other things being equal, to be
exercised—that is, to be “in the money.” Because a real option is
exercised only when the value created by that option exceeds the
cost of exercising the option, a low exercise price suggests a higher
probability of being exercised. Conversely, the higher the exercise
price of a real option, the lower is that option’s value. If a firm must
choose between two strategies, one of which has a low cost of
implementation sometime in the future and the other a high cost of
implementation sometime in the future, this attribute of real options
suggests—other things being equal—that the first strategy is
preferred over the second.

Second, the higher the cash flows generated by exercising a real
option (S), the greater is the value of that real option. It is these cash
flows that must offset the cost of exercising a real option if a real
option is to pay off for a firm. If these cash flows are much larger
than the exercise price of a real option, then the value of that real
option can be very large. Other things being equal, a strategy that
generates large cash flows sometime in the future is preferred over a
strategy that generates small cash flows sometime in the future.


Third, the longer the time to maturity (T), the more valuable a real
option is. Real options are all about the flexibility afforded a firm
under conditions of uncertainty. The further into the future a firm can
delay its decision, the more flexibility it retains. Of course, in most
circumstances, a firm does not have to wait until the maturity date to
exercise a real option.11 Thus, a long maturity date provides a firm
with greater flexibility with no real additional costs. If, during this long
time to maturity, it becomes appropriate for a firm to exercise its real
option, it can almost always do so. If it is only appropriate to exercise
a real option on its maturity date, firms can wait to do so. Long
maturity dates provide a firm with increased flexibility and
consequently are associated with more valuable real options.


Fourth, the higher the risk-free interest rate (rf), the more valuable
the option is. However, because the risk-free rate is usually outside
the direct control of managers making strategic choices, its effect on
those choices is not as important to strategic decision makers. If the
risk-free rate of interest is expected to change (go either up or
down), this can influence the value of a real option compared to
making an investment without any flexibility components.


Finally, the greater the uncertainty (σ 2 ) the more valuable a real
option is. Intuitively, the relationship between uncertainty and the
value of a real option turns on the importance of flexibility in these
conditions. When it is not clear what specific strategic actions a firm
should take, flexibility is the best strategic choice. Flexibility implies
the ability of a firm to keep its options open. Therefore, the ability to
retain options is likely to be more valuable as uncertainty about
which strategy to pursue increases.


Analytically, the effect of uncertainty on the value of a real option is
extremely important. Firms gain economic value from real options
when the cash flows generated from exercising those options are
greater than the cost of exercising them (that is, when S > X ).
However, the cost of creating this option is fixed and equal to the
investment required to create the option to defer, grow, expand, and
so forth. The upside potential of a real option depends on the cash
flows that exercising that option may create. The downside risk of a
real option, on the other hand, is fixed. In this setting, highly
uncertain cash flows are preferred over less uncertain cash flows.
This is because highly uncertain cash flows have the chance of
generating very high returns for a firm, whereas the downside risk
associated with gaining access to those cash flows is fixed. Put
differently, under high uncertainty the chance of gain is greater and
the chance of loss no larger. Therefore, the greater the uncertainty,
the more valuable is the real option.


These subjective characteristics of real options can be used by firms
to decide when real options analysis is likely to be important (that is,
when uncertainty is high). They can also be used to choose among
several different real options investments (that is, low exercise prices
are preferred over high exercise prices; high cash flows are
preferred over low cash flows; long time to maturity is preferred over
short time to maturity; and high risk-free interest rates are preferred
over low risk-free interest rates). All this can be done whether or not
the actual value of a real option is calculated.


Return again to the example of the pharmaceutical firm deciding
whether to invest in Product A, given the effect that producing A may
have on its ability to create Products B and C. The criteria presented
in Table 6.3    can be used to help make the decision about whether
to invest in Product A, to have the option of investing in Products B
and C in the future, even if it is not possible to value this option in a
formal manner. Questions that managers should ask when
subjectively valuing the real option value of investing in Product A
include: How much additional investment will be required to develop
Products B and C? What kinds of cash flows are Products B and C
likely to generate? How long can the firm delay its decision to invest
in Products B and C? What is the current risk-free rate of return and
how is it likely to evolve? How uncertain are the cash flows
associated with Products B and C? If the additional investment
required to develop Products B and C is small, if the potential cash
flows associated with these products is large, if the firm can delay its
final decision about whether to invest in Products B and C for a very
long time, if the current and future risk-free rates are high, and if the
uncertainty associated with the cash flows from Products B and C is
large, then the option value associated with investing in Product A is
likely to be very large. In this setting, even if Product A does not
generate positive net present value as a standalone investment, it
may still be wise for a firm to invest in Product A to gain access to
the opportunities associated with Products B and C.
Quantitatively Valuing Strategic Flexibility
In many circumstances, qualitatively valuing strategic flexibility using
the ideas summarized in Table 6.3 will be enough to guide a firm’s
strategic decision making under uncertainty. However, in some
settings, it may be possible, and even advantageous, to
quantitatively value a firm’s flexibility due to its real options.


An example of one approach to quantitatively valuing strategic
flexibility focuses on the hypothetical two stage strategic investment
presented in Table 6.4      .12 In year one, a firm would need to invest
$l35 million to build Phase One of a plant. This Phase One
investment generates the cash flow and terminal value presented in
Panel A of Table 6.4     . The net present value of this Phase One
investment, using conventional means and a discount rate of 12
percent, is $14.24 million. Then, in year three, this firm can invest an
additional $487 million in Phase Two of this plant. This Phase Two
investment generates the cash flow and terminal value presented in
Panel B of Table 6.4     . The net present value of the Phase Two
investment (also using a 12 percent discount rate) is $41.68 million.
The traditional net present value of this entire investment is, as
shown in Panel C of Table 6.4 : 6.4 : −$30.62. Based on this
analysis, this firm should not invest in this plant. For future
considerations, the risk-free rate of interest during this entire period
is 5.5 percent.
Table 6.4 An Example of Two-Phase Investment Where Discount
Rate=12 percent   Risk-free Rate=5.5 percent
However, this traditional valuation implicitly assumes that the firm
must make the decision about whether to invest in Phase One and
Phase Two at the same time. It fails to recognize a real option that is
embedded in this phased investment: the option to delay the
decision to invest in Phase Two of this plant for three years. Thus,
the valuation question facing this firm is, “Is the value created by this
real option sufficient to justify investing in Phase One of the plant,
even though traditional valuation techniques suggest that investing in
Phase One and Two will not create value for the firm?” As is shown
in Table 6.5   , this kind of investment can be valued in six steps.


Table 6.5 Steps in Valuing a Real Option
Step One: Recognize Real Options
Step One is to recognize any real options associated with an
investment. The two-stage investment in this example clearly creates
the kind of flexibility enhancing strategy described in this chapter. By
investing in this plant in two stages over time, a firm creates for itself
the option to defer, the option to grow, and the option to expand—all
depending on how the market happens to evolve—compared to what
would have been the case if it built the entire plant all at once. Thus,
this investment has real options associated with it.
Step Two: Describe a Real Option Using
Financial Option Parameters
Step Two in valuing this kind of investment is to describe it in terms
of the five parameters that determine the value of a financial option:
S, X, T, σ 2 and rf. This is done by recognizing the correspondence
between the five value-determining attributes of a financial option
and similar attributes of a real option. The correspondence of the five
parameters of the Black-Scholes option pricing model, attributes of
real option investments, and attributes of the example are presented
in Table 6.6   .


Table 6.6 Correspondence of Value-Determining Parameters of
Financial Options to the Attributes of Real Options, Applied to
the Example in Table 6.4
Consider first the exercise price of a real option. A financial option’s
exercise price, X, is analogous to the amount of money that a firm
would have to invest if and when it actually exercised a real option.
In the example, X is $487 million, the amount of money that this firm
would have to invest in net working capital and fixed assets if it
decides to proceed with the Phase Two investment in year three.


The price of the underlying asset in a financial option, S,
corresponds to the present value of the cash flows generated by the
assets built or acquired if and when a firm exercises its real option.
In the example, S is the present value now (at time zero) of the cash
flows that the Phase Two addition to the plant is expected to
generate in the fourth year onward. As shown in Panel B of Table
8.4, in this case, S equals $305.02 million
(16.67 + 16.05 + 272.3 = 305.02) .




A financial option’s time to maturity, T, is analogous to the length of
time a company can defer the decision about whether to exercise a
real option. In the example, T is three years. The time value of
money for both financial and real options is the risk-free rate of
interest (rf). In the example, this is given as 5.5 percent.


Finally, the variance in the price of the asset underlying financial
options, σ 2 corresponds to the uncertainty about the actual cash
flows an exercised real option will generate. Of course, the level of
uncertainty associated with a real option’s cash flow is usually not
known when a real option is first created. Indeed, the whole idea
behind investing in ways that create real options is to avoid
overcommitting to a particular course of action before this
uncertainty is reduced. Thus, estimating σ 2 to value a real option
can be difficult.


One way to address this problem is to estimate all the Black-Scholes
parameters associated with a real option except σ 2 Then, various
values of σ 2 can be used to calculate the value of the real option. By
examining the relationship between cash flow uncertainty and real
option value, managers can decide whether to invest in a real option.
For example, if the only way a real option has a significant positive
value is if the cash flow uncertainty associated with that option is
very high (for example, σ 2   = .8   ); risk-averse managers might
decide that investing to create this real option is not worthwhile.
Alternatively, if a real option is valuable even when the cash flow
uncertainty associated with it is quite low (for example, σ 2 = .09 ),
even risk-averse managers would probably be willing to invest to
create this real option. In the example, it is assumed that σ 2 equals
.16.


Step Three: Establishing a Benchmark
To see if valuing an investment as a real option creates any extra
value for a firm, it is necessary to establish a benchmark. This
benchmark is simply the present value of an investment valued
without recognizing any real options embedded in that investment.
As shown in Panel C of Table 6.3        , that benchmark figure is
−$30.62
Step Four: Calculate Option Value Metrics
Several authors have shown that it is possible to combine the
parameters of the Black-Scholes option pricing model into two
variables, called option value metrics. These metrics incorporate all
the information about the five option valuation parameters, but do so
in two numbers.13 This can significantly simplify the valuation of a
financial option.


Similar metrics can be calculated for real options. The first, often
called NPVq, is simply the ratio between the present value now of
the cash flows that would be generated by the assets built or
acquired if and when a real option is exercised and the present value
of the amount of money needed to invest in an option if and when it
is exercised. From Table 6.5    , we know that this ratio is simply:

                                        S
                         N P Vq =
                                      P V (X)

                                            S
                                  =
                                                 T
                                      X(1+rf )




For the example, S   = $305.02    million and X          = $487   With a
discount rate of 12 percent, NPVq can be calculated as

                                        305.01
                        N P Vq =                     3
                                    487(1+.055)


                                 = .775



The second metric has been called cumulative volatility and is
                    cumulative volatility= .4√3

                                              = .693



Notice that up to this point, the uncertainty associated with the cash
flow generated by a real option has been described by the variance
in those cash flows (σ 2 ) However, in calculating cumulative
volatility, the standard deviation of those cash flows (σ) is used. Of
course, the standard deviation of these cash flows is simply the
square root of their variance. Because in the example,
σ
    2
        = .16, σ = .4.   Because T   = 3,




                    cumulative volatility = .4√3

                                              = .693
Step Five: Estimate the Value of the Option from
a Black-Scholes Option Pricing Table
One of the advantages of using the two option value metrics to
parameterize a real option is that it is then possible to use a pre-
calculated table to determine the value of a specific option as a
percentage of the underlying project’s value. That is, these two
metrics define a particular option, and this option’s value is known to
be equal to a percentage of an underlying project’s (or assets) value.
A Black-Scholes option pricing table, which is included in the
appendix at the end of this book, lists this known percentage as a
function of these two parameters.


With NPVq    = .775   and σ sqrt 3 =.693, the value of the real
option in the investment described in a Black-Scholes option pricing
table is approximately 18.7 percent of the value of the underlying
asset, S. Because S   = 305.02   in this case, the value of this option
is $60.08.
Step Six: Compare Full Present Value with the
Benchmark Value
Recall that the benchmark value of this investment, using traditional
present value techniques, was −$30.62 The full investment,
recognizing the option value inherent in it, is the present value of
Phase One of this investment plus the option value of Phase Two of
this project, or

                   present value =$14.24 + $60.09

                                    =$74.33



Of course, this is much higher than the net present value of $30.62
calculated using traditional techniques. Apparently, there is
significant economic value associated with the real option that is
created by investing in Phase One and then delaying the decision
about whether to invest in Phase Two of this project for three years.
Traditional logic suggests that a firm should not invest in this project.
Real options logic suggests that it should.


Whether a firm qualitatively or quantitatively values its strategic
flexibility, research—summarized in the Research Made Relevant
feature—is beginning to accumulate that suggests that real options
thinking can be very important for a firm’s success.
R E S E A R C H M A D E R E L E VA N T
The Value of Real Options Thinking


Rita McGrath and Ian MacMillan argue that under conditions
of uncertainty, managers should invest in a diversified range
of projects that parallel many of the real options discussed in
this chapter. These projects can be arrayed as in Figure
6.1      .




F IG U R E

6.1       Categorizing Your Register of Opportunities
Source: R. G. McGrath and I. MacMillan, The Entrepreneurial Mindset. (Boston: Harvard Business School

Press, 2000).




In this figure, technical uncertainty                           refers to the extent to
which managers understand the process by which a new
product or service will be developed before that process is
undertaken. Low technical uncertainty exists when managers
know what kinds of skills and other resources they will need
to develop a new product or service, the cost of acquiring
these skills and resources, how to manage them effectively,
and so forth. High technical uncertainty exists when
managers do not know these things about a new product or
service.

Market uncertainty      , in Figure 6.1    , refers to the extent
to which managers understand how a new product or service
will be received in the market. Low market uncertainty exists
when managers know the price at which a product or service
is likely to sell, the likely size of the market that a new product
or service will address, the likely competitive responses to a
new product or service, and so forth. High market uncertainty
exists when managers do not know these things about a new
product or service.

Under conditions of low market uncertainty and low technical
uncertainty, investments in new products and services have
limited real option value. As suggested in the figure, such new
products or services are typically more like simple
enhancements of a firm’s current products or services.
Although such investments may clearly be valuable in
traditional present value terms, they have limited value in
creating options for a firm.

Under conditions of moderate market uncertainty and
moderate technical uncertainty, the value of the real options
associated with introducing new products or services
increases. In such settings, new product or service offerings
may look like the introduction of new technology platforms.
Such platforms may be related to a firm’s previous products
or services, and thus the level of uncertainty in these
investments is higher than for single enhancement launches.
Moreover, such platform investments may give the firm the
opportunity to introduce additional new products or services,
but a firm is not required to do so.

Finally, when both market uncertainty and technical
uncertainty are high, new investments made by firms typically
have substantial real option value. McGrath and MacMillan
identify three of these options: positioning options      (when
technical uncertainty is high and market uncertainty is low),
scouting options      (when market uncertainty is high and
technical uncertainty is low), and stepping-stone options
(when both types of uncertainty are high). The definition of
these options is summarized in Table 6.7     .

TA B L E

6.7 Real Options under Technical Uncertainty and Market
Uncertainty
Positioning options give a firm the opportunity to wait and see
what technological standard or standards will emerge in an
industry. Such options are created when a firm makes limited
investments, through, say, strategic alliances or small
acquisitions in several competing technologies.

Creating a positioning option may ensure a firm’s survival in
the face of technical uncertainty, but such a firm might find
itself at least at a temporary competitive disadvantage to a
firm that made one technological bet that turned out to be the
right bet. This firm will have more experience in the winning
technology and may be able to use that experience to gain
cost or product differentiation advantages in this market. In
this sense, the potential trade-offs between the real options
listed in Table 6.1   and other business-level strategies can
also exist for the real options listed in Table 6.7   .

Per McGrath and MacMillan, scouting options can be thought
of as entrepreneurial experiments. They enable a firm to
explore new markets with new capabilities, to gauge the size
of these markets and the potential value of their new
capabilities. However, as with all real options, investments in
scouting options need to be kept small. The expectation that
a scouting option will generate a positive net present value
investment opportunity directly is small. Thus, to keep the
costs of building this option low, investments need to be kept
small.

However, though it is unlikely that any one scouting option will
generate positive economic profit for a firm directly, among all
the scouting options in which a firm invests, the probability
that at least some of them may generate real profit
opportunities directly is higher. Moreover, even if a scouting
option does not generate profit opportunities directly, it may
generate such opportunities indirectly by suggesting other
scouting options that may ultimately generate profit
opportunities.

This last possibility—that a scouting option might suggest
another scouting option that could lead to creating superior
performance for a firm—suggests the final type of option
listed in Table 6.7   : a stepping-stone option. Stepping-stone
options are the classic sequential investments originally
discussed in the context of the Black-Scholes evaluation
model.

Firms seeking to create and realize the value associated with
stepping-stone options must exercise great discipline in
identifying decision-making milestones. Examples of such
milestones might include, for example, dates by which a
decision to invest or not invest in a new plant will be made,
conditions under which a decision about whether investments
in a new product will be made, and so forth. Without such
strong milestones, and the discipline to enforce them, the
stepping stones embedded in real options logic can lead
down an infinitely long path. Sometimes, firms are so intent
on keeping their options open, that they fail to exercise their
options. Such firms never actually do anything, although they
may have the ability to do something, sometime.
Alternatively, without these milestones and the discipline to
enforce them, firms may exercise their options too soon,
before the uncertainty that led them to invest in flexibility in
the first place is resolved. Such premature execution of
options also destroys value.

Only when firms identify clear decision-making milestones
with regard to either exercising or abandoning a real option,
and then manifest the discipline required to use these
milestones, will it be the case that the full value of real options
thinking will be realized.

Firms that exclusively adopt a net present value approach to
valuing new investments will rarely invest in new products or
services beyond enhancement launches—relatively
straightforward extensions of their current portfolio. Such
investments will often create value for a firm’s shareholders,
but have limited ability to enable a firm to develop new
technologies, resources, and capabilities. That is, such
enhancement launches have limited agility to enable a firm to
transform itself.

However, if a firm invests in a portfolio of options—some
positioning options, some scouting options, and some
stepping-stone options—some of these investments may pay
off big for the firm. Not only may some of these investments
generate direct profits for the firm’s stockholders, they may
also enable the firm to discover entirely new opportunities that
could not otherwise have been anticipated.14
Strategic Flexibility and Sustained
Competitive Advantage
                 Objective 6.3 Identify when strategic flexibility and
                 real options can be a source of sustained
                 competitive advantage.

Under conditions of high uncertainty, flexibility is often valuable
because it creates real options for firms. However, following the logic
presented in Chapter 3 , if several competing firms are all
contemplating the same uncertain strategic decision and all value
the flexibility and options embedded in this decision in the same way,
then any actions they take because of this analysis will only be a
source of competitive parity. These actions will be valuable, but they
will not be rare or costly to imitate. When, if ever, can flexibility be a
source of sustained competitive advantage for firms?
Rare and Costly-to-Imitate
Flexibility
The concepts of flexibility and real options are closely related to the
importance of history and path dependence described as potential
sources of sustained competitive advantage in Chapter 3 . Firms
that are exploring options embedded in real assets that a firm
possesses because it happened to be in the right place at the right
time in history; or assets that grew up over time in an organization
may be able to gain sustained competitive advantages because the
options generated by these assets may be rare and costly to imitate.
Consider, for example, the parallel between real options and
flexibility, on the one hand, and history and path dependence, on the
other, in the following example.15


Imagine a biotechnology firm deciding about its manufacturing
strategy. Two manufacturing tasks must be accomplished for this
firm ultimately to be able to bring the product it is developing to the
market. The first task is to manufacture product prototypes that can
be subjected to certification tests. Assuming the prototypes are
certified, this product must then be manufactured for commercial
sale. However, suppose that this manufacturing process is very
complex, that the only way a firm can learn how to manufacture this
product for commercial sale is to have developed its manufacturing
skills during the process of manufacturing enough of this product for
government tests. Finally, assume that the ultimate market value of
this product is very uncertain. How can this firm make a decision
about its manufacturing strategy?


As suggested in this chapter, the first step in this process (see Table
6.5 ) is to recognize that a real option exists in this situation: Under
conditions of high uncertainty, the option to delay the decision about
whether to build a plant for commercial production is valuable. The
option, in this example, is represented in Figure 6.2       .


However, notice that the branches on this simple decision tree are
not all equally likely to occur. In fact, because of the importance of
learning about manufacturing during the certification phase as
preparation for commercial manufacturing, if this firm does not build
the certification plant, it actually does not have an option to build the
commercial plant. Put differently, the decision not to build the test
plant is the same as the decision not to build the commercial plant.
To retain its flexibility in this uncertain market, this firm must actually
build the test plant.
Figure 6.2 The Option to Defer Deciding Whether to Build a
Commercial Plant

The example in Figure 6.2       shows that, in some circumstances,
the ability to create and exercise real options is very path dependent.
Only if a firm follows a specific path of decisions over time can it
retain its flexibility. Once a firm has varied significantly from this
specific path, it can be very costly to turn back. A firm that decides
not to build the test plant, but then later decides to build the
commercial plant, will find itself at a significant competitive
disadvantage compared to a firm that builds the test plant in the first
place.

All this suggests that when the real options facing a firm are path
dependent, and when the ability to do real options analysis is not
widely diffused among a set of competing firms, retaining flexibility
can actually be a source of sustained competitive advantage for a
firm. On the other hand, when real options are not path dependent,
or when the ability to do real options analysis is widely diffused
among competing firms, this form of analysis is not likely to be a
source of competitive advantage for a firm.
Organizing to Implement Strategic
Flexibility
                 Objective 6.4 Identify the organizational challenges
                 associated with implementing strategic flexibility and
                 a real options strategy.

It seems logical to assume that firms seeking to implement a
strategy of flexibility under conditions of uncertainty should adopt
flexible forms of organization. Although the U-form structure and
associated control and compensation policies can provide some
flexibility for firms, firms engaging in real options approaches to
strategic analysis often need additional flexibility to realize the full
potential of this strategy. Thus, while the traditional tools for
implementing business-level strategies are used by firms
implementing flexibility strategies, these tools are normally
augmented with more flexible organizing mechanisms.


As will be described in more detail in Chapter 8 , vertically
integrating into an exchange is generally less flexible, that is, costlier
to change, than using market contracts or strategic alliances to
manage an exchange. In particular, when the latter mechanisms are
used to manage an uncertain exchange that turns out not to be
valuable, these exchanges are simply cancelled, usually at low cost.
However, if the type of exchange is brought within the boundaries of
the firm, the costs of backing out of it can be much greater. Thus,
other things being equal, exchanges characterized by high
uncertainty, where flexibility is important, are more likely to be
managed through various forms of strategic alliances than be
vertically integrated. These issues will be discussed in more detail in
Chapter 8     and Chapter 11      .


From the point of view of organizational structure, management
controls, and compensation under uncertainty, flexibility should be
preferred over less flexibility. Highly bureaucratic systems of rules,
unchangeable accounting budgets, and rigidly defined committees
and task forces all seem inconsistent with this need for flexibility.
Rather, some of the control mechanisms originally described in
Chapter 5 ’s discussion of organizing to implement product
differentiation seem likely to be more appropriate under conditions of
high uncertainty. These might include highly developed sets of
guiding principles that define the acceptable range of decision
making within a firm. Within the range defined by these principles,
employees are free to make decisions. Outside this range, decision
making is extremely limited.


While this flexible organization may be helpful in realizing the value
of strategic flexibility, it can have important consequences for
employees. Some of these consequences are described in the
Ethics and Strategy feature.
E T H I C S A N D S T R AT E G Y F E AT U R E
Treating Employees as Flexible Assets


What do these companies have in common? Hewlett-
Packard, Microsoft, Proctor and Gamble, Caterpillar,
American Express, Cisco, Wal-Mart, Intel, and Bank of
America. Obviously, these are some of the best known and
most admired companies in the United States. Less
obviously, each of these firms has laid of thousands of
workers in 2015 and 2016. Hewlett-Packard—a leader in
computers and printers—laid off 30,000 employees in 2015;
Microsoft laid off 7860 in 2015 and 4700 in 2016; Proctor and
Gamble—the packaged goods giant-laid off 6000 in 2015;
Caterpillar—the construction equipment firm—laid off 5000 in
2015; American Express 4000 in 2015; Cisco 14,000 in 2016;
Wal-Mart 17,500 in 2016; Intel 12,000 in 2016; and Bank of
America 8000 in 2016.

It used to be that large and successful firms like these
provided secure employment. Not so much anymore. Large
firms routinely lay off personnel; so do small firms. Indeed,
layoffs are so common these days that you can go online and
get samples of letters you can send to employees notifying
them that they are being laid off. An entire industry that
specializes in laying people off has emerged.

Rather than finding ways to retain employees, more and more
companies are treating all their employees as temporary or
contract workers. This increases the flexibility of these firms—
in ways consistent with the importance of retaining flexibility in
uncertain times described in this chapter—but at a real
human cost. A broad range of emotional and physical
consequences of being laid off have been documented,
including anxiety, irritability, anger, fear, an unwillingness to
trust (on the emotional side) and fatigue, headaches, weight
loss or gain, sleep disorders, and nausea (on the physical
side).

All this points to the fact that creating flexibility—especially
when it comes to employees—is not costless.16
Summary
Firms possess strategic flexibility when they can choose among
several strategic alternatives. These alternatives are also called real
options. Firms can create many kinds of real options, including the
option to defer an investment decision, the option to grow a business
sometime in the future, the option to contract a business sometime in
the future, and so forth.

While less important under conditions of risk, maintaining flexibility
and real options is very important under conditions of uncertainty—
where neither all the possible outcomes of a decision, nor their
probability are known, ex ante, when a decision is being made. The
value of these options can be estimated either qualitatively or
quantitatively, although both these approaches build on insights from
the Black-Scholes model of option valuation.

Over and above valuing options, options thinking has been shown to
help firms manage their portfolio of innovative investments.
Depending on the level of technical and market uncertainty,
positioning options, scouting options, and stepping stone options can
create important forms of strategic flexibility for a firm.


Because some options—especially stepping stone options or options
that evolve in a sequence—are embedded in path dependent
process, firms that do not use options logic may have difficulty
imitating firms that have used this logic. In this way, strategic
flexibility and real options may be a source of sustained competitive
advantage for a firm.

Finally, organizing for strategic flexibility involves the adoption of
flexible organizational structures, management controls, and
compensation policies. However, these organizational policies may
put significant burdens on some of the resources critical to a firm’s
success, especially its employees.




       MyLab Management
       Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management to
       complete the problems marked with this icon .
Challenge Questions
      6.1 In the semi-conductor industry, Moore’s law suggests
   that the power and computational speed of microprocessors
   will double about every nineteen months. Assuming that
   Moore’s law is correct, is R&D in the microprocessor industry
   uncertain or risky? Justify your answer.
   6.2 Identify a recent acquisition in the business literature. Are
   there likely to have been any real options associated with this
   acquisition? If no, why not? What effect, if any, does your
   analysis have for the price at which this acquisition was
   completed?
   6.3 How are the investment attributes that make it possible to
   characterize subjectively the value of a real option related to
   the attractiveness of an industry? For example, when the
   threat of entry into an industry is high, are real options likely to
   be more or less valuable? When the level of rivalry in an
   industry is high, are real options likely to be more or less
   valuable?
      6.4 Over the last few years, several large U.S. technology-
   based firms have begun to create venture capital funds.
   Usually, these venture capital funds are not as profitable as
   independent venture capital funds. In your view, does this
   mean that the technology-based firms should abandon their
   venture capital efforts? If appropriate, use real options logic in
   your analysis.
Problem Set
  6.5 Suppose a firm is contemplating investing in a new
  distribution network to distribute over-the-counter drugs to
  pharmacies around the world. Also, suppose that the
  investments and cash flows from creating this distribution
  network are as depicted in panel A of the following table.
  Finally, suppose that this distribution network, with some
  additional investment, could also be used to distribute
  prescription drugs, and the investments and cash flows of this
  second investment are as depicted in panel B. Assume that
  the discount rate for these two investments is 13%.
  First, what real options are embedded in the investment in the
  over-the-counter distribution network? Given the investments
  and cash flows, what is the exercise price, the value of the
  underlying asset, and the time to maturity of these options?
  Assume the risk-free rate of return is 5.5% and the level of
  uncertainty of the cash flows associated with investing in a
  prescription drug network is .25. What is the value of creating
  a new over-the-counter distribution network without
  considering the possibility of also creating a prescription drug
  distribution system? What is the value of this real option?
  Given these numbers, should this firm invest in the over-the-
  counter distribution network?
MyLab Management
Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management for
Auto-graded writing questions as well as the following
Assisted-graded writing questions:

         6.6. What must be true of flexibility for it to
      lead to sustained competitive advantage?
         6.7 How might organization mechanisms
      support implementation of a real options
      strategy?
End Note
1    Netflix.wikipedia (accessed January 28, 2017); forbes.com/companies/Netflix
(accessed, January 29, 2017).
2    Sanchez (1997) “Strategic Flexibility, Firm Organization, and Managerial work in
Dynamic Markets: A Strategic Options Perspective,” in Advances in Strategic Management,
Vol. 8
3    Adage.com/article/cmo-strategy/flo-s-progressive-evolution/295734 (accessed
April 5, 2017)
4    This strategy has been called “tapered integration.” See F. Kessler and R. Stern (1959)
“Competition, Contract, and Vertical Integration,” Yale Law Journal, 69(1).
5    See R. Brealy and S. Myers (1988) Principles of Corporate Finance. 3rd edition. NY:
McGraw Hill.
6    See E. Bowman and D. Hurry (1993) “Strategy Through an Options Lens,” Academy of
Management Review, 18(4): 760 –782; R.; B. Kogut (1991) “Joint Ventures and the Option
to Expand and Acquire,” Management Science 37: 19 – 33.
7    The first author to distinguish between risk and uncertainty was Frank Knight (1921)
Risk, Uncertainty, and Profit. London: London School of Economics.
8    See I. Gilboa and D. Schmeidler (1989) “Maxmin Expected Utility with Non-Unique
Priors,” Journal of Mathematical Economics, 18(2): 141 –153.
9    See T. Copeland and J. Weston (1983) Financial theory and Corporate Policy.
Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley pages 255 – 256.
10       See F. Black and M. Scholes (1973) “The Pricing of Options and Corporate
Liabilities,” Journal of Political Economy, 81: 637 – 658.
11       When firms can exercise an option before its exercise date, that option is called an
American Option. Options that can be exercised only on their exercise date are called
European Options. Most real options are American options.
12       This approach was first proposed by T. Luehrman (1998) “Investment Opportunities
as Real Options: Getting Started with the Numbers,” Harvard Business Review, 26:
July/August, 51 – 67.
13    Option metrics are derived in R. Brealy and S. Myers, Principles of Corporate
Finance, 3rd Ed. NY: McGraw Hill.
14    See R. McGrath and I. MacMillan (2000) The Entrepreneurial Mindset. Boston:
Harvard Business School Press.
15    The decision tree in this example suggests another approach to valuing real options
in the literature. Called the binomial approach, it is described in T. Copeland and P. Tufona,
“A Real World Way to Manage Real Options,” Harvard Business Review, 82(3): 90 – 99.
16    See fortune.com/2015/10/02/biggest-layoffs-2015; 27wallst.com/special-
report/2016/08/19/12-company-laying-of-the–most-workers/5/;
www.theatlantice.com/science-agrees-being-laid-off-is-terrible/389447;
cardinalatwork.stanford.edu/faculty-staff-help-center/work-related/coping-emotional-
impact-layoff
Chapter 7 Collusion
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to:


               7.1 Define explicit and tacit collusion and explain
               why collusion is typically inconsistent with
               social welfare in an economy.
               7.2 Describe how collusion can create economic
               profits.
               7.3 Describe different ways that collusive
               agreements can fall apart, and how it is possible
               to use the attributes of an industry to anticipate
               how sustainable these agreements are likely to
               be.
               7.4 Describe two unique challenges associated
               with organizing to implement a collusion
               strategy.
MyLab Management
  Improve your Grade!


If your instructor is using MyLab Management, visit
www.pearson.com/mylab/management for
simulations, tutorials, and end-of-chapter problems.
A Gas Station Conundrum




Carolyn Franks/123RF.com




Consider the following scenario. Think of it as a chance to
apply all the theories and frameworks discussed in this text so
far.

You own and operate a gas station on a busy street corner in
your town. There are other gas stations in your city, but they
are located over ten miles away. You sell a well-respected
brand of gasoline, one that is supported by a national
advertising campaign. While you charge a premium for your
gas (compared to the other stations in town), your property is
clean and well maintained, your self-serve pumps are state of
the art, and you run a clean and well-stocked convenience
store at your station. The store sells drinks, snack foods, and
a few auto supply items, and does so very profitably.
According to a recent national survey, your store sells 95% of
the top 100 selling items in gas station convenience stores.
Even more important, some people say you sell the best hot
coffee in town. Two years ago, you added a car washing
station behind the store. It too has done well. And you’ve
been the only gas station on this busy corner since you built it
five years ago.

Until now.

It began with a rumor that another gas station was going to be
built kitty-corner from yours. When the construction began, it
was obvious that this rumor was true. About the same size as
your station, it was going to sell a different brand of nationally
advertised gasoline. The convenience store that was being
built was slightly smaller than yours, but as it was stocked, it
became clear that it would sell about the same items that your
store sold. The new station even had an automatic car wash
similar to yours, although a different brand. As the new station
got close to opening, you got to know the new owner. She had
a great reputation in town as a business person, and was
widely liked and respected. You had every reason to believe
that she would run her business very effectively.

Three weeks after the hoopla of her grand opening,
something happened that surprised you. Initially, the price of
her gasoline—advertised like yours on a sign in front of her
station—was the same as yours. You had dropped your price
a bit before her grand opening—still higher than the other gas
stations in town, but a few cents lower than what it had been
—and she matched that price. Until today. Today, she raised
the price of her gasoline by five cents per gallon. There was
no indication that the wholesale price of gasoline—either
yours or hers—had gone up.

How should you respond?
Firms that choose and implement each of the
generic business strategies discussed so far—
cost leadership, product differentiation, and
flexibility—generate economic profits by more
efficiently and effectively meeting their
customer’s needs—by having low costs, by
differentiating their products, or by retaining the
flexibility to do either of these—than their
competitors. In this sense, the economic profits
generated by these strategies can be thought of
as efficiency profits.

In this chapter, the source of economic profits is
not the differential strategic efficiency and
effectiveness of a firm. Rather, it is the ability of
a group of firms to work together to reduce
competition in their market or industry. This
strategy is called collusion. Collusion, for
example, may lead firms in an industry or
market to reduce industry supply below industry
demand, thereby increasing prices above a
competitive level. These increased prices are
the source of economic profits in this chapter.
Note that these profits do not require firms to be
differentially efficient or effective in meeting
customer needs, but only that they collude with
other firms to reduce competition. For this
reason, these economic profits are called
collusion profits.

The gas stations in the opening case are,
perhaps, contemplating the implementation of a
particular type of collusion, called tacit collusion.
The decision by one station to raise the price of
gas when there are no obvious reasons to do so
—e.g., when the wholesale price of gas has not
gone up—may be a signal of an intent to collude
—to reduce the level of competition on prices
below the competitive level and generate
collusion profits. On the other hand, maybe
something else is going on. It is difficult to know
for sure, and legally, the gas station owners
cannot directly discuss their prices. Such explicit
collusion is illegal in most developed economies.

So, what would you do if your “competitor,” in
this situation, raised prices? This chapter will
show that there are economic, strategic, legal,
and ethical issues associated with making this
decision.
What is Collusion?
Objective 7.1 Define explicit and tacit collusion and explain why
                 collusion is typically inconsistent with social welfare
                 in an economy.

Collusion exists when firms in an industry or market cooperate to
reduce competition. This cooperation can take a variety of forms
including decisions by firms to not compete in the same geographic
market (e.g., Coca-Cola’s decision to focus on the Western
European market and Pepsi’s decision to focus on the Russian 1 ),
decisions to not do research and development in the same
technological area (e.g., General Electric’s decision to focus on large
electric generation turbines and Westinghouse’s decision to focus on
small electric generation turbines 2 ), and decisions to reduce
production below a competitive level (e.g., when members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries [OPEC] agreed to
reduce oil shipments in 1973, causing the first U.S. oil crisis 3 ). In all
these settings, competition is attenuated, prices rise, and firms can
gain economic profits.

Of course, not all cooperation among firms is designed to reduce
competition in an industry. Thus not all cooperation among firms is
collusive. For example, firms may cooperate in strategic alliances to
enhance their ability to compete in a market or industry. This form of
cooperation is discussed in Chapter 11. However, in this chapter,
collusive cooperation is emphasized.

Collusion can take one of two forms, explicit collusion or tacit
collusion. Explicit collusion    exists when firms in an industry
directly negotiate agreements about how to reduce competition.
Explicit collusion is illegal in most developed countries. To be
completely clear: in most developed countries, engaging in explicit
collusion can land you in jail. Tacit collusion , on the other hand,
can be legal. Tacit collusion exists when firms cooperate in reducing
competition, but engage in no face-to-face negotiations to do so.
When the new gas station owner increased the price of her gasoline
she may have been signaling her intention of engaging in tacit
collusion without the face to face negotiations that would have
constituted illegal explicit collusion.


Whether explicit or implicit, firms that engage in collusion face a
number of fundamental ethical challenges. Some of these
challenges are discussed in the Ethics and Strategy feature.

Tacit collusion requires firms to signal their willingness to cooperate
to reduce competition indirectly. However, these signals can
sometimes be difficult to understand and interpret. When this is the
case, firms who have much to gain from cooperation may not be
able to realize these gains.


Consider the simple, and well known, Prisoner’s Dilemma Game
example. A payoff matrix for two firms in such a setting is presented
in Table 7.1 . If the two firms in this situation both choose strategy
A—that is, if they cooperate—then they each will earn $3,000. If Firm
1 chooses strategy A, and Firm 2 chooses strategy B—that is, if Firm
2 decides not to cooperate—then Firm 1 will earn $0 while Firm 2 will
earn $10,000. In a similar way, if Firm 1 chooses strategy B and Firm
2 chooses strategy A—here Firm 1 is not cooperating—then Firm 1
will earn $10,000 and firm 2 will earn $0. Finally, if neither firm
chooses strategy A—both choose to not cooperate—they each earn
only $1000.


Table 7.1 Prisoner’s Dilemma Game and Associated Payoff
Matrix

You don’t need to be a sophisticated game theorist to see that both
firms are better off if they cooperate ($3,000 each) but that they are
each likely to be tempted to go for the big payoff (of $10,000), in
which case they are both worse off (earning only $1,000 each).
Cooperation pays here but may not be realized.
E T H I C S A N D S T R AT E G Y F E AT U R E
The Ethics of Collusion

It is well established in economic theory that perfectly
competitive markets are consistent with social welfare.
However, in such markets, firms cannot earn economic profits
and so there is little room for strategy or strategic
management.

It is also well established that if valuable resources and
capabilities are heterogeneously distributed across competing
firms in an industry, and those resources and capabilities are
immobile, then if firms with resource and capability
advantages use those advantages to efficiently and effectively
address customer needs, that those actions too are
consistent with social welfare. This is true even though firms
in these markets may earn economic profits. This is the logic
that underlies the resource-based view of strategy and
strategic management discussed in Chapter Three of this
text.

However, it is also well established that firms with
homogeneous resources and capabilities that cooperate to
reduce competition below a perfect competition level can
generate economic profits (this is discussed in the Strategy
in Depth feature in this chapter in detail), but doing so
reduces social welfare. In economics, this reduction in social
welfare is called a dead weight loss . This loss is equal to
the economic benefits foregone by consumers who would buy
a product if it was priced appropriately, but do not buy it
   because the collusive price is greater than the benefits they
   perceive from buying this product. While there are other
   sources of dead weight losses (e.g., taxes that subsidize
   some products but not others), collusion that they reduces
   competition in a market or industry is an important source of
   these losses. Strategy and strategic management are
   relevant in these settings, but only to the extent that they
   reduce competition and thus hurt social welfare. This is the
   logic that underlies structure-conduct-performance models of
   strategy presented in Chapter Two of this text.

   So while strategy and strategic management is not
   necessarily inconsistent with social welfare, it can be. Firms
   that pursue such strategies may be able to generate profits,
   but may also be subject to anti-trust litigation, government
   regulation, and other actions that can limit the profits they can
   generate. Their managers will also have to learn to reconcile
   their ability to generate economic profits with the fact that
   these profits come at the expense of the welfare of society
   generally. 4


It would be much easier to realize the payoffs from cooperation if
Firm 1 and Firm 2 could directly communicate with each other. That
way, they could judge each other’s intentions, use peer pressure to
make sure that agreements to cooperate were actually implemented,
form friendships and trust, and so forth. But, such direct
communication—at least in the case of collusion where firms are
cooperating in an effort to reduce the level of competition in a market
or industry—is illegal, and such cooperation may be more difficult to
realize.


Despite these challenges, a wide variety of firms have engaged in
collusion. Some of it has been explicit, some tacit. For example, in
1990, Major League Baseball owners were found guilty of colluding
in the market for baseball free agents. In 1991, MIT and Ivy League
schools were found to have colluded by cooperating in the allocation
of scholarships to needy applicants. In the early 1990s, U.S. airlines
were found guilty of colluding on ticket prices. Archer Daniels
Midland (ADM), a large agriculture products firm, was found guilty of
colluding with its competitors in 1998. In 2007 and 2008, British
Airways and Virgin Air colluded in the charges they added to ticket
prices for higher fuel prices. Sainsbury and Asha—two British
grocery store chains—colluded on retail milk prices from 2002 to
2003. Four flat glass manufacturing firms from around the world—
Asahi, Guardian, Pilkington, and Saint-Gorman—colluded in their
pricing from 2004 to 2005. Recently, large appliance manufacturers,
tire makers, and credit card companies have each been investigated
by the U.S. Department of Justice for possibly collusive activities. 5
The Value of Collusion
Objective 7.2 Describe how collusion can create economic profits.


One way to understand how collusion can create economic value is
to apply the structure-conduct-performance (SCP) model of industry
profits first presented in Chapter Two. Recall that this model was
originally developed to identify industries where perfect competition
dynamics were not unfolding and thus where firms were, on average,
earning a rate of return greater than their weighted average cost of
capital. Other scholars then used this SCP framework to identify five
threats to the profits of firms in an industry: new competitors, existing
competitors, substitute products, supplier leverage, and buyer
influence. 6 Firms can engage in collusive strategies that reduce the
threats associated with each of these elements of competition in an
industry.
Colluding to Reduce the Threat of
New Competitors
For example, firms can collude to reduce the threats from new
competitors by working together to increase the barriers to entry into
an industry listed in Tables 7.1 and 7.2. One way this can be done is
by incumbent firms cooperating to build very-large-scale production
facilities that support their operations but that cannot be expanded to
include the operations of new entrants. In such settings, the
operating costs of new entrants will be higher than the operating
costs of incumbent firms. Oil companies that cooperate to build
shared refining capacity can sometimes be examples of such
investments. 7 These actions can increase the extent to which
economies of scale act as a barrier to entry.

Firms can also develop common technological standards that make
it very difficult for new firms to enter an industry. This can be an
especially important barrier to entry when only incumbent firms in an
industry have the experience and managerial knowhow needed to
meet those standards—a situation that is more likely when those
standards are set by incumbent firms. 8 This is an example of
increasing the extent to which cost advantages independent of scale
can act as a barrier to entry.


Firms in an industry can also cooperate in using product
differentiation as a barrier to entry. They do this by reducing their
emphasis on differentiating their own products and instead focus on
differentiating an industry’s current products vis a vis potentially new
products. Something as simple as an advertising campaign that
emphasizes the “home grown” nature of the products made by
incumbent firms (e.g., Made in the U.S.A.) can increase the cost of
entry by new competitors.


Firms in an industry can even jointly lobby the government to
increase the cost of entry into an industry. Rarely will these lobbying
efforts be couched in simple terms like, “help us prevent entry to
increase our profits.” Rather, incumbent firms, collectively, are likely
to focus on how entry might destroy domestic jobs, might lead to
customer safety risks, might lead to inferior products being sold on
the market, might lead to immoral child labor, and so forth. Such joint
lobbying efforts can increase the cost of entry into an industry. 9
Colluding to Reduce the Threat of
Current Competitors
By definition, collusion with other firms in an industry involves
reducing competition among those firms. On the cost side, collusion
can enable firms to avoid costly efforts to reduce their production
costs, avoid costly efforts to differentiate their products, and avoid
costly efforts to make it easy for customers to buy from them. On the
revenue side, these firms can raise prices without the concern that
competitors will undercut them on price. Since these firms’ costs will
be lower than what would be the case without collusion, and since
their revenues will be greater than what would be the case without
collusion, firms that successfully implement collusion can generally
have higher profits than firms operating in more perfectly competitive
markets. These general observations are made more precise in the
Strategy in Depth     feature.
S T R AT E G Y I N D E P T H




How Colluding Firms Generate Economic Profits


To see how colluding firms can create economic profits,
consider the following simple example. Suppose there are
two firms in an industry and that they agree to divide
everything in this industry down the middle. Each will produce
and sell half the input in the industry and each will get 50% of
any profits that are generated. Together, these colluding firms
face a single downward slopping demand curve. Suppose this
curve is described by:

                         P (Q) = 10 − Q




where Q is expressed in, say, millions of pounds per year,
and P is expressed in dollars per pound. If these firms charge
$8 per pound, together they will sell 2 million pounds in this
market; if they charge $6 per pound, together they will sell 4
million pounds.

Different quantities and their associated prices generate
different amounts of total revenue for these two firms. Since
total revenue (TR) is price times quantity, total revenue for
these two firms is:

                 TR (Q)         =   PQ × Q


                 TR (Q)         =    (10 − Q) Q

                                                 2
                 TR (Q)         =   10Q − Q




If these firms, together, sell 2 million pounds at $8 per pound,
their total revenue together would be $16 million
(10 (2)   − 4   =     16) ,   or $8 million each; if they sell 4
million pounds at $6 per pound, their total revenues together
would be $24 million (10 (4) − 16 = 24) or $12 million
each.

Now, suppose each of these firm’s total cost of production is
given by:
                                             2
                    TC (Q)     =    (1/2) Q




If these firms each produced 1 million pounds, their total costs
would each be $500,000. If they each produced 2 million
pounds, their total costs each would be $2 million.

As described in Chapter One, a firm’s economic profit is
simply the difference between its total revenues and its total
costs. If together, these firms sell 2 million pounds at $8 per
pound, then they would each have revenues of $8 million and
total costs of $500,000. Their net profit each would be $7.5
million. If together, these firms sell 4 million pounds at $6 per
pound, then they would each have revenues of $12 million
and total costs of $2 million. Their net profit each would be
$10 million.

This same logic can be generalized to more than two firms.
For example, suppose there were four firms in an industry
that agreed to divide production and profit among themselves
equally. Using the same demand and cost equations as
previously, if these firms together produced 4 million pounds,
they could sell this output for $6 per pound, and the total
industry revenue would be $24 million. The costs of each of
these firms would be $500,000, and their profits would be
(24/4 − .5)    $5.5 million each.

In more competitive settings, these economic profits will
induce competitive entry, driving supply in an industry up and
prices down. Such entry would continue until there were no
longer any economic profits. However, when firms in an
   industry can cooperate and are protected by high barriers to
   entry, then collusion can generate economic profits. 10




Colluding to Reduce Other
Competitive Threats
While firms can generate profits by colluding to erect high barriers to
entry and through coordinating production and pricing, they can
generate such profits by colluding to reduce other competitive
threats as well. For example, firms in an industry can collude by
agreeing to pay less than what would be the market determined
price for certain raw materials (thereby reducing the supplier
leverage threats) or by agreeing to limit the number of products they
are willing to sell to customers (thereby reducing buyer influence
threats).

Of course, these actions may have the effect of increasing the
attractiveness of substitutes for the products produced by firms in an
industry. Members of OPEC discovered the limits of their ability to
collude in reducing the volume of oil they were willing to sell when
the increased price of crude oil led a variety of companies to explore
alternative sources of energy and consumers to conserve. In this
sense, the value of these substitutes put a limit on how much
economic profit could be generated by colluding to reduce supply. 11
Collusion and Sustained
Competitive Advantage
Objective 7.3 Describe different ways that collusive agreements
              can fall apart, and how it is possible to use the
              attributes of an industry to anticipate how sustainable
              these agreements are likely to be.

The previous paragraphs suggest that, in principle, collusion can be
a source of economic profits. The examples cited suggest that
collusion—either explicit or tacit—can exist, for at least some period.
However, collusion is often a difficult strategy to maintain over long
periods. This is especially true of tacit collusion, where colluding
parties do not negotiate their cooperative agreements face to face.


The reason that collusion is a difficult strategy to maintain over time
is that while parties to these cooperative agreements often have
strong incentives to cooperate—namely, the economic profits they
can obtain from doing so—they also have strong incentives to cheat
on those cooperative agreements. Recall the Prisoner’s Dilemma
payoff matrix presented in Figure 7.1. While both firms do well if they
cooperate—they both earn a $3,000 pay off—one firm actually does
better if it does not cooperate while the other firm does cooperate. In
this case, the “cheating” non-cooperative firm earned $10,000, and
the cooperative firm $0.
Consider, another example. Suppose an industry consists of six
firms, all selling undifferentiated products. 12 If five firms stick with an
agreement to sell 1,000 widgets for $10 a piece but one firm breaks
this agreement and sells 3,000 widgets for $9 apiece, each of the
five colluding firms will have revenues of
$10,000 (1, 000 × $10) ,        but the cheating firm will have revenues
of $27,000   (3,000 × $9) .      Assuming economic costs are
constant (at $3 per widget), the five colluding firms will all have
economic profits of $7,000 [1,000 × ($10 − $3)] , but the
cheating firm will have an economic profit of
$18, 000 [3,000 × ($9 − $3)] . By increasing its output and

lowering its price by $1 per widget, the cheating firm is able to
increase its economic profit substantially.
Ways Firms Can Cheat on
Collusive Agreements
Firms can cheat on their collusive agreements in a wide variety of
ways. These different forms of cheating are based on different
assumptions about colluding partners’ reactions to cheating, and
they have different effects on the performance of firms in an industry.
Bertrand cheating and Cournot cheating—two of the most important
forms of cheating in collusive agreements—and their performance
consequences are presented in Table 7.2 . These forms of
cheating are compared first with fully collusive strategies and then
with fully competitive price-taking strategies.


Table 7.2 Ways Firms Can Cheat on Collusive Agreements,
Decision Variables, Behavioral Assumptions, and Equilibrium
Performance Implications for Firms in a Duopoly without
Product Differentiation
Bertrand Cheating
Economist and mathematician Joseph Bertrand examined what
happens to profits when colluding firms begin cheating by lowering
prices below the cooperative price. 13 In his model, Bertrand makes
the (unrealistic) assumption that each time cheating firms adjust their
prices, they assume that other firms in the industry will continue
cooperating. Bertrand’s general conclusion is that, assuming little or
no product differentiation among a small number of firms, if one firm
decides to cheat on a collusive agreement by reducing its prices,
others will as well and, in the long run, firms in this industry will earn
no economic profits.


To see how this happens, consider the simple example presented in
Table 7.3 . In this industry, there are only two firms (a duopoly)
and no product differentiation. Imagine that Firm A and Firm B have
decided to restrict output such that the prices they charge for their
products are P1. Firm B then decides to cheat on this agreement,
increases its output, and sets its price equal to P2 . P2 must be less
than P1 , because any new price greater than or equal to P1 will not
increase Firm B’s revenues. With the price equal to P2 , all
customers switch to Firm B to buy its products. Firm A must respond
and sets its new price at P3   (where P3 < P2 ) .     Customers rapidly
switch back to Firm A; Firm B responds, and so forth. This will
continue until the prices charged by both firms generate revenues
exactly equal to the firms’ economic costs, at which point these firms
will earn no economic profits.
Table 7.3 Bertrand Cheating in a Duopoly with Homogeneous
Products
Cournot Cheating
Bertrand’s analysis suggests that the superior profits that can be
obtained by colluding firms are very fragile—any price reductions by
one firm will lead rapidly to zero economic profits for both firms.
Antoine-Augustin Cournot took a slightly different approach to
analyzing cheating in collusive arrangements. 14 Instead of focusing
on reductions in price, Cournot examined the performance
consequences if colluding firms cheat by adjusting the quantity of
their output and let market forces determine prices.

The performance implications of competing on quantity are
examined in Table 7.4      for firms in a duopoly. The table includes
information about the economic setting these firms are facing,
including information about the industry demand curve, marginal
revenue, and marginal cost. The intuition behind this table is
straightforward. Like Bertrand, Cournot adopts the simplification that
Firm A and Firm B will assume that decisions made in a previous
period will continue unchanged. Where Bertrand focused on prices,
Cournot focused on quantity produced.
Table 7.4 Performance Implications of Cournot Cheating in a
Duopoly (With Firm A and Firm B) Where: (1) Overall Industry
Demand is Given By: P = 100 − Q; (2) Where Total Quantity
is the Sum of the Production of Firm A and B: Q = q1 + q2 ;
(3) For Convenience, Where Each Firm’s Marginal Cost is
Assumed to Equal Zero; and (4) Where Industry Marginal
Revenue is Given By: MR    =   100 − 2Q.
Given this assumption, when Firms A and B decide on their own
quantity of output, assuming the other firm’s quantity is fixed from an
earlier decision, they become monopolists over the part of industry
demand that is not filled by the other firm. Each of these firms then
chooses a profit-maximizing quantity given this unmet demand.
However, that quantity choice has an effect on the other firm, which
adjusts the demand curve it faces to include demand not met by the
first firm and chooses a new profit-maximizing quantity. This new
quantity, of course, affects the first firm, which readjusts the demand
curve it faces to include demand not met by the other firm, chooses
a new profit-maximizing quantity, and so forth. Note that, unlike
Bertrand cheating, firms that cheat on collusive agreements through
adjusting their quantity of output—Cournot cheating—can still earn
some economic profits, although it will not be as large a profit as
would be the case if these firms had maintained their collusive
agreements.
Other Forms of Cheating
The performance results associated with both Bertrand cheating and
Cournot cheating depend on assumptions that firms make about how
other firms will respond to their own cheating. Both Bertrand and
Cournot assume that firms take other firms’ prices/outputs in the
previous period as fixed, and that firms never learn that other firms
adjust their prices/outputs in response to their own decisions. These
assumptions seem very unrealistic. In response to these unrealistic
assumptions, other models of cheating on collusive arrangements
have been developed. Edgeworth, following Bertrand, examined
price cheating. 15 However, Edgeworth introduced capacity
constraints in his model (based on the observation that firms can
change their prices faster than they can change their quantity of
output). Because of these capacity constraints, the market share of
the firm with a higher price does not go to zero, and firms are able to
avoid the perfect competition outcome of pure Bertrand cheating—
that is, both firms make positive profits, though not as large as the
profits in Cournot cheating.


Stackelberg, following Cournot, focused on quantity decisions but
adopted the assumption that one firm (the so-called Stackelberg
leader) accurately anticipates how other firms will respond to its
output decision, adopts a profit-maximizing quantity, and holds that
quantity constant over time. 16 Other firms in this industry
(Stackelberg followers) adjust their outputs accordingly. Firms in this
kind of industry earn positive economic profits, but these profits are
less than the profits earned by firms engaging in pure Cournot
cheating.

Other authors have adopted different assumptions about the
behavior of rivals. Some authors have examined the profits
associated with Bertrand and Cournot cheating when firms sell
differentiated products; when there are time lags in discovering that
a firm has cheated; when firms interact simultaneously in several
markets; when other firms are unable to observe price or quantity
cheating; when prices cannot be adjusted quickly; when firms have a
reputation for not retaliating against cheaters; and so forth. 17
Generally, long-run profits for firms that cheat on purely collusive
agreements in these ways fall somewhere between the perfect
competition, zero-economic-profit solution and the perfect
cooperation, shared-monopoly-profit solution.
Explicit and Tacit Collusion
Because the performance implications of cheating on collusion
depend so critically on the particular assumptions that firms make
about how their rivals will respond to cheating, an important question
becomes: “How can a firm learn what its rivals’ intentions are?” The
easiest way to answer this question is for firms to communicate
directly with each other about their current price and output decisions
and their future price and output decisions. This kind of direct
communication will allow firms to judge the likely responses of others
and enable them to negotiate price and output strategies that jointly
maximize profits. Of course, this form of direct communication and
negotiation—explicit collusion—is illegal in most developed
economies.

Instead of engaging in direct communication and explicit collusion,
colluding firms seeking to choose joint profit-maximizing cooperative
strategies must use tacit collusion. Instead of communicating
directly, tacitly colluding firms send and interpret signals of intent to
cooperate (or intent not to cooperate) sent by potential collusion
partners. 18


Sometimes, signals of intent to collude are very ambiguous. For
example, when firms in an industry do not reduce their prices in
response to a decrease in demand, they may be sending a signal
that they want to collude, or they may be attempting to exploit their
product differentiation to maintain high margins. When firms do not
reduce their prices in response to reduced supply costs, they may be
sending a signal that they want to collude, or they may be
individually maximizing their economic performance. In both cases,
the organizational intent implied by a firm’s behavior is ambiguous at
best.

Some recent work in game theory suggests when firms seeking to
maintain collusion should send “tough” signals—a signal that they
will aggressively respond to cheating—or “soft” signals—a signal that
they will not aggressively respond to cheating. These findings are
summarized in the Research Made Relevant          feature. However,
remember that even tacit collusion, with no direct communication
between cooperating firms, can be illegal. Firms that consciously
make price and output decisions in order to reduce competition may
be engaging in what the courts call conscious parallelism        and
thus be subject to antitrust laws and penalties, even if they do not
explicitly collude. For this reason, firms contemplating implementing
even tacit collusion need to obtain competent legal advice. 19
Industry Attributes and the Threat
of Cheating
Beyond the strategic actions that a firm can take to signal its
intentions about cheating on collusive arrangements in an industry
discussed in the Research Made Relevant            feature, firms can also
use a variety of attributes of an industry to estimate the probability of
cheating on these agreements. In general, these industry attributes
affect the probability that cheating, if it actually occurred in an
industry, would be detected. Detected cheating is likely to lead to the
competitive responses mentioned earlier in this chapter. Because
these competitive outcomes are less attractive than collusive
outcomes, if the probability of detecting cheating in a collusive
industry is high, the likelihood that cheating in this industry will
actually occur is low. On the other hand, if the probability of detecting
cheating in a collusive industry is low, the likelihood that cheating in
this industry will actually occur is high.
R E S E A R C H M A D E R E L E VA N T
Sending Signals to Maintain Collusion


In general, firms can send one of two signals to collusion
partners who may cheat on their cooperative agreements: a
tough signal     (that if parties cheat on collusive
agreements, the firm sending the signal will decrease prices
more or increase output more than would have otherwise
been the case) or a soft signal      (that if parties cheat on
collusive agreements, the firm sending the signal will
decrease its prices less or increase its output less than would
have otherwise been the case). Examples of strategic actions
that send a tough signal to colluding partners include
investing in a new production process that reduces a firm’s
marginal cost of production. By reducing its marginal cost, a
firm could very easily lower its prices or increase its output
should another colluding firm begin cheating. Examples of
strategic actions that send a soft signal to a colluding partner
include positioning a firm’s product so that it does not
compete directly with the products of a colluding firm. By
positioning its product this way, a firm is suggesting that
should its colluding partner cheat, it will simply shift more of
its emphasis to the differentially positioned product. In this
way, this firm would not have to decrease its prices or
increase its output in the market in which it has been
colluding with the other firm.

The implications of tough and soft investments for maintaining
collusive relationships when price is the primary basis of
potential competition among colluding firms, and when
quantity is the primary basis of potential competition among
colluding firms, are summarized in Table 7.5      . 20 When
price is likely to be the major basis of competition in an
industry, firms should not make investments that send a tough
signal. Whatever the direct benefits of such investments, their
strategic implications are quite negative. Tough investments
in this context send a signal that Bertrand cheating is about to
unfold. This makes collusive arrangements very difficult to
maintain. Instead of making investments that look “tough,”
firms in this setting should try to look nonaggressive. Some
have called this the “puppy-dog ploy.” A firm that follows this
strategy would not invest in a new production process that
reduces marginal costs even if the direct effect of this
investment was to enable the firm to implement a cost
leadership strategy in order to keep a tacit collusion
agreement in place.

TA B L E

7.5 Strategic Implications of Soft and Tough Strategies
When Collusive Agreements Are Threatened by Cheating
on Prices and Quantities
One firm that may have adopted this puppy-dog ploy is Ben &
Jerry’s Ice Cream, especially since the growth in demand for
frozen yogurt. Since its inception, Ben & Jerry’s had focused
its marketing efforts on selling highly differentiated “premium”
ice cream. Most of Ben & Jerry’s ice cream flavors include
chunks of chocolate, nuts, fruit, or other additives. Beginning
in the mid-1990s, demand for premium ice cream began to
fall as consumers became more health-conscious. During this
same period, demand for frozen yogurt—as a healthy
alternative to ice cream—began to rise. Despite the increased
popularity of frozen yogurt, Ben & Jerry’s did not introduce a
line of “premium” frozen yogurt at that time. Partially, the
decision not to enter the frozen yogurt market reflected Ben &
Jerry’s traditional commitment to its ice cream product.
However, from a competitive point of view, the decision not to
enter the frozen yogurt market at that point was also a
decision not to enter into direct competition with frozen yogurt
firms. Had Ben & Jerry’s entered into this competition, frozen
yogurt firms might have felt compelled to enter into the
premium ice cream market, and both the frozen yogurt and
premium ice cream markets would have become more
competitive. 21

The decision not to invest in a tough signal is not the same as
the decision to invest in a soft signal. After all, a firm that has
decided not to invest in a tough signal could, in principle,
decide to make no strategic investments to signal its
intentions. In fact, when price is likely to be the basis of
competition in an industry, firms should invest proactively in
soft signals. These actions have the effect of reassuring
collusion partners that price competition is not likely to be
forthcoming in the market in which they are cooperating. This
strategy has been called the “fat-cat effect” because firms that
do this well send a signal that they will not compete
aggressively in a market in which they have been colluding,
but instead will act as a soft fat cat. Firms that follow this
strategy try to differentiate their products in ways that do not
threaten colluding partners.

Consider, for example, IKEA, the Swedish furniture firm. IKEA
has developed a significant market presence in the wooden,
ready-to-assemble segment of the furniture industry. Its
extensive supply, manufacturing, and distribution capabilities
in this segment of the furniture industry give it a significant
competitive advantage. It is very likely that IKEA could extend
this competitive advantage to the traditional upholstered
segments of the furniture industry by modifying the line of
products it sells. However, IKEA’s large scale entry into the
very competitive upholstered segment of the furniture industry
could lead firms in the upholstery segment to aggressively
enter the wooden, ready-to-assemble segment. And although
IKEA’s competitive advantage in this segment might remain,
its level of profitability would probably fall. Thus, in order to
keep competition in the wooden, ready-to-assemble segment
of the furniture industry low, IKEA has an incentive not to
invest in a significant way in the upholstered segments of the
industry. As was the case with Ben & Jerry’s delayed entry
into the frozen yogurt market, IKEA has an incentive to invest
in a puppy-dog ploy with respect to the upholstered furniture
market.

However, IKEA has gone beyond simply not investing in the
upholstered furniture market. It has aggressively marketed
itself in the wooden, ready-to-assemble market. Moreover, it
has done so in ways that would be difficult to transfer to most
segments of the upholstered furniture market. The reputation
of being the lowest-cost, highest-quality, and most convenient
supplier of wooden, ready-to-assemble furniture cannot be
easily transferred to most types of the upholstered furniture
market. In this sense, marketing investments in positioning
IKEA that are specific to the wooden, ready-to-assemble
furniture market are not threatening to firms operating in the
upholstered furniture market and are examples of the fat-cat
effect. 22

On the other hand, when the primary basis of potential
competition in an industry is quantity, then strategic
investments that send tough signals can have very positive
strategic consequences. In this setting, a firm must convince
its collusion partners that if any of them begin to cheat, the
consequences will be very negative for all. This has been
called a “top-dog strategy.” In this setting, firms may invest
heavily in, say, manufacturing capacity, even if those
investments do not generate positive economic profits
directly. However, these investments send a clear signal to
colluding firms that has the effect of reducing the likelihood
that cheating will actually occur. Because these investments
increase the likelihood that collusion will continue, they can
have a positive effect on a firm’s performance.

Finally, if the basis of competition in an industry is likely to
focus on quantity, then making investments that send soft
signals to colluding partners may actually increase their
aggressiveness, reducing the likelihood that collusion will
continue. In this setting, firms that make soft investments look
like easy targets for colluding partners that decide to cheat.
Rather than making these investments, firms in this setting
should retain what has been called a “lean-and-hungry look.”

Hewlett-Packard’s (HP) decision to spin off its electronic
instruments business into a separate company may be, in
many ways, an example of a firm that has adopted a lean-
and-hungry-look strategy. By focusing all of its efforts on its
computer, and especially the printer business, HP assures
that it will have all the managerial resources it needs to
respond to opportunities in this industry. 23 Firms
contemplating entering into this industry, or firms currently in
this industry and considering the pursuit of aggressive new
technology and product offerings, may think twice before
entering into a competitive struggle with the new HP. In this
sense, HP’s choice to focus its efforts, to become lean and
hungry, has had the effect of reducing competition in the
computer and printer industry below what would have been
the case if it had not spun off its electronics instruments
business.
Several attributes of industries have been shown to affect the
probability of cheating on collusive agreements. The most important
of these are listed in Table 7.6   . 24


Table 7.6 Industry Attributes That Facilitate the Development
and Maintenance of Tacit Collusion


Each of these industry attributes can be thought of as helping to
define the level of opportunity and threat for pursuing a collusive
strategy in an industry.
Small Number of Firms in an Industry
Tacit collusion is more likely to be successful if there is a small
number of firms in an industry. As suggested earlier, tacit collusion
depends on the sending and interpreting of signals of intent to
cooperate. Because direct communication about prices and output is
forbidden, coordination must be indirect and implicit. Intense
monitoring of other firms’ behavior helps make this coordination
possible. However, as the number of firms in an industry increases,
the number of firms whose subtle signals must be monitored and
interpreted also increases. Indeed, as the number of firms in an
industry increases arithmetically, the number of relationships among
those firms that must be monitored and nurtured increases
geometrically. As the number of relationships and subtle signals
must be interpreted increases, judging the intent of firms sending
these signals becomes more problematic (and it is never easy), and
maintaining tacit collusion agreements becomes more difficult.


Having a large number of firms in an industry also reduces the effect
of any one firm’s cheating on the performance of other, still colluding,
firms. If there are only two firms in an industry (a duopoly) and one
reduces its prices (Bertrand cheating), then the increased sales of
the cheating firm will significantly affect (reduce) the sales of the
non-cheating firm. To maintain its share, the non-cheating firm must
respond to the cheating firm, perhaps by reducing its prices, so that
the zero-profit outcome is not far away. Because cheating hurts both
firms very much, it is less likely that either firm will want to cheat on a
tacit agreement.
However, if there are fifty firms in an industry and one cheats by
reducing its prices, that one firm will not have a significant effect on
the sales of other firms, and cheating may engender no response. If
other firms are not likely to respond to isolated incidents of cheating,
cheating is more likely. In the end, if the number of firms in an
industry is very small, the interdependence among those firms is, on
average, very clear to them, and tacit collusion is more likely. If the
number of firms in an industry is large, the interdependence among
those firms is less obvious, and tacit collusion is less likely.


Government regulators often use the number of firms competing in
an industry as a signal that firms in an industry may decide to pursue
collusive business strategies. For example, the charges leveled by a
former GE executive that GE and DeBeers were colluding to raise
prices in the industrial diamond market were more believable
because GE and DeBeers together dominate over 80 percent of this
$600 million market. The U.S. Department of Justice filed suit
against GE for price-fixing in this market. These charges were
dismissed, however, when a federal judge concluded that there was
insufficient evidence to bring GE to trial. 25


Other antitrust actions taken by the U.S. federal government have
also been motivated by the small number of competing firms in an
industry. These include antitrust suits against IBM (a firm that was
dominating the mainframe computer market), AT&T (a firm that
dominated the long-distance telephone market), Microsoft (a firm
that dominated the personal computer operating systems market),
and, most recently, Visa and MasterCard (two firms that dominate
the credit card market).

Indeed, the relationship between the number of colluding firms and
the ability to implement tacit collusion is so significant that most
economists analyze collusion only under conditions of oligopoly.
Research on government-sanctioned explicit price-fixing cartels in
Western Europe, where (presumably) direct communication between
colluding firms can occur, indicates that over 80 percent of these
cartels occurred in industries with ten or fewer firms. Thus even
when explicit collusion is possible, a small number of firms seem to
facilitate the implementation of this cooperative strategy. It is likely
that small numbers are even more important for tacit collusion
strategies. In general, having a small number of firms in an industry
increases the probability that cheating firms will be discovered, and
this likelihood reduces the payoffs associated with cheating.

Recent reviews of the empirical relationship between the number of
firms competing in a geographic segment of an industry, and prices
found that as these geographic segments become more
concentrated, prices can rise significantly. In the retail gasoline
industry, for example, when the three largest gasoline retailers in a
geographic market sell 60 percent of the gasoline in that market,
prices are approximately 5 percent higher than when the three
largest gasoline retailers sell 50 percent of the gasoline in a market.
This is consistent with the effect that a small number of competing
firms can have on the ability to implement tacit collusion strategies.
26
Product Homogeneity
Tacit collusion is also more likely when firms produce and sell similar
products or services. 27 In general, changes in prices are easier to
monitor than are changes in product characteristics or features. A
firm may cheat on a tacit collusion strategy by charging the agreed
price but providing more features, higher quality, or better service.
These efforts at product differentiation are somewhat more difficult to
monitor and thus create strong incentives for cheating.


However, if differentiating the products or services of firms in an
industry is very costly, potential competition must focus on price
reductions, a relatively easy-to-monitor effort at cheating. Once
spotted, price reductions (Bertrand cheating) have significant
negative consequences for all firms (zero economic profits). Thus, if
firms in an industry produce homogeneous products or services,
cheating on collusive agreements is more likely to be discovered,
and this likelihood reduces the payoffs associated with cheating.
Cost Homogeneity
Homogeneity of economic costs enhances the opportunities to
implement tacit collusion. When firms have very different costs, their
optimal level of output may be very different. This is because, in
general, profit-maximizing firms should produce a quantity of
products or services such that marginal costs equal marginal
revenues. If marginal costs vary significantly among firms, the
optimal level of production for these firms will also vary. These
differences make it difficult for firms to find a level of output that
jointly maximizes profits. In this situation, any tacit collusion
agreement is very unstable, because each firm has even stronger
incentives to cheat.


Cost heterogeneity is widely cited as one of the major reasons why
OPEC, an explicitly colluding cartel, has generally been unable to
maintain output and price discipline. Optimal levels of oil production
vary sharply across members of OPEC, leading these countries to
expand production beyond agreed-to collusive levels. 28


When cooperating firms have similar economic costs, it may be
relatively easy for them to discover an output level that is mutually
satisfactory. This facilitates tacit collusion.
Price Leaders
Another industry characteristic that creates opportunities for tacit
collusion is the existence of industry price leaders. A price leader
is a firm that sets “acceptable” industry prices or “acceptable” profit
margins in an industry. A price leader is often the firm with the
largest market share, which helps create the order and discipline
needed to make tacit collusion last over time. Also, a price leader
can assist an industry adjusting to higher or lower prices, without
jeopardizing an overall cooperative agreement, by defining industry
standards for price or margin changes. In general, price leaders can
be thought of as Stackelberg leaders. 29


Through the 1950s and 1960s, GM acted as a price leader in the
U.S. automobile market. Each fall, with the introduction of new lines
and models, GM publicized the percentage by which it planned to
increase the price of its cars. Ford and Chrysler typically followed
GM’s lead, raising their prices by approximately the same
percentage as had been announced by GM. Since the entry of
Japanese and German firms as major players in the U.S. automobile
industry (and thus the violation of the small-numbers requirement
listed earlier), GM no longer plays this price leadership role. 30
Industry Social Structure
Industry social structure can create opportunities for tacit collusion.
Industry social structure      refers to accepted norms of behavior
and competition that often evolve in industries. These norms are
usually implicit and constitute what might be called an industry
culture   . Spender calls this collection of expectations and norms
an industry recipe      and emphasizes its pervasive effect on firm
behavior. 31 This industry recipe, in an important sense, defines the
standard operating procedures, acceptable forms of competition, and
norms of behavior for firms in an industry. Violation of these norms
and expectations constitutes a major breach of “industrial etiquette.”


Several factors may work together to help create an industry social
structure. Some industries when they first develop are dominated by
one or two firms with very large market shares. Because of this
dominance, most managers in the industry receive their training and
early experience in these dominant firms. In a sense, the culture
within these dominant firms begins to define the culture in the
industry as a whole, and expectations about acceptable forms of
competition in the industry reflect expectations within the dominant
firms. These industry expectations may continue long after dominant
firms lose their share leadership.


Managers in firms located in the same geographic area may come
into contact at charity functions, private clubs, and in other social
settings. These social interactions may lead to the development of
mutual expectations concerning acceptable competitive behavior
and help create a sense of trustworthiness among firms
contemplating collusion. Other social contacts among managers in
an industry, including relationships developed at trade association
meetings, can also help create an industry recipe.

However they evolve, these social expectations can facilitate tacit
collusion by defining some forms of competition as unacceptable. If
banned forms of competition would increase rivalry, an industry’s
culture can make tacit collusion easier to implement.


There is substantial evidence that industry social structure facilitated
collusion among the owners of Major League Baseball franchises
during the 1980s. Each Major League Baseball franchise in North
America is independently owned. However, franchise owners must
cooperate in leagues to establish playing schedules, a common set
of rules, and other operating standards. While engaging in this legal
cooperation, informal agreements not to bid aggressively on free
agents were apparently struck. The effect of these agreements was
to reduce payments to baseball players from 38 percent of team
revenues to just 31 percent of team revenues by 1989. 32 In 1990, an
arbitrator found that Major League Baseball owners had behaved
collusively and violated their labor agreement with the players’ union.
The owners were subsequently fined $102.5 million, and players’
salaries have risen to over 40 percent of team revenues.
High Order Frequency and Small Order
Size
Firms may have incentives to cheat on cooperative agreements
when maintaining a collusive agreement has high opportunity costs.
Imagine, for example, a firm that has agreed to tacit collusion is
seeking a very large contract to supply product to an important
customer. Also, suppose that this contract will extend for several
years. If this firm obtains this contract, it will have steady and
profitable demand for its output for several years. If it does not obtain
this contract, its profitability depends on uncertain industry demand
and the willingness of other firms in the industry to maintain tacit
collusion. Moreover, suppose the opportunity to gain this secure
supply contract happens infrequently, once every twenty years. In
these settings, firms may be willing to cheat on their collusive
agreements to get that secure supply contract.


Numerous industries are characterized by infrequent, large orders. In
military aircraft, the failure of a firm to obtain a major contract can
have an adverse effect for ten to fifteen years. 33 In commercial
aircraft, large orders for one company can have significant effect on
another company. It is unlikely that tacit collusion agreements could
survive the rivalry created by these infrequent, large orders, even
though the number of firms in these industries is quite small.
Large Inventories and Order Backlogs
The ability of firms to produce for inventory and to create order
backlogs helps facilitate tacit collusion. 34 Inventory and order
backlogs create buffers between a firm and its environment. With
these buffers in place, firms do not have to react to every change in
market conditions with changes in output and price. Instead of
reducing prices when demand drops, firms can produce for inventory
and store the products they sell. Instead of increasing prices when
demand increases, firms can create an order backlog. These buffers
help firms maintain consistency in their output and prices over time,
thereby facilitating tacit collusion.


In some industries, inventories may be technologically infeasible,
and order backlogs may not satisfy customers. For example, in the
fresh fruit business, production for inventory is likely to lead to large
spoilage costs. To avoid such costs, firms facing unanticipated
reductions in demand, or greater-than-anticipated supply, are likely
to have to adjust their prices. These rapid changes in price can have
a very destabilizing effect on an industry’s price/output structure and
make tacit collusion very difficult.
Entry Barriers
Each of the industry attributes listed in Table 7.6   has an effect on
the level of opportunity for tacit collusion in an industry. None,
however, is more important for this strategy than the existence of
barriers to entry. Without barriers to entry, the economic profits
associated with tacit collusion create incentives for firms to enter into
an industry. New entry into an industry reduces the collusion-
enhancing attributes of each of the other industry characteristics
listed in Table 7.6   . New entry increases the number of firms in the
industry. New entry is likely to create both product heterogeneity (as
new firms introduce new products) and cost heterogeneity (new firms
often have costs different from colluding incumbents). New entrants
are likely to ignore price leaders and often are not part of the industry
social structure. New entrants are also likely to compete for all
orders, small or large, to shrink order backlogs to satisfy customers,
and to reduce inventories through stiff price competition. Overall,
new entrants can be thought of as loose cannons in otherwise placid
and calm industries. To reduce the threat of new entrants, tacitly
colluding firms must be protected by barriers to entry.
Rarity and Costly to Imitate
Collusion Strategies
At first, it appears that tacit collusion strategies violate the rarity
requirement of a sustained competitive advantage first introduced in
Chapter 2     . After all, rarity seems to imply that a small number of
firms in an industry have the resources needed to implement a
particular strategy. But for tacit collusion to work, all or certainly the
majority of firms in an industry must be involved. In what sense can a
strategy implemented by all firms in an industry be considered rare?


The answer to this question depends on the first industry attribute
listed in Table 7.6 —the small-numbers requirement. From the
perspective of firms currently in an industry, the tacit collusion
strategy is not rare. However, the development of tacit collusion
requires a small number of industry incumbents. So from the point of
view of both incumbents and potential entrants, the tacit collusion
strategy is rare. It is very unlikely that numerous firms, including
incumbents and potential entrants, could successfully implement a
tacit collusion strategy. Thus, from this broader perspective, tacit
collusion must be rare in order to generate economic profits.


Tacit collusion also seems to violate the costly-to-duplicate
requirement of sustained competitive advantage. For tacit collusion
to work in an industry, incumbent firms that have not joined in the
collusion must not face a cost disadvantage if they choose to do so.
If it is very costly for non-colluding incumbents to begin colluding,
then collusion will break down, and the economic profits associated
with this strategy will be lost. Therefore, costly-to-duplicate strategies
in this context appear to reduce the chance for sustained competitive
advantage.


However, including potential entrants in the analysis resolves this
apparent contradiction. Because all colluding incumbent firms are
implementing the same strategy (tacit collusion), firm-level resources
that are costly to duplicate are logically equivalent to industry-level
barriers to entry. Industry barriers to entry are essential for the
successful implementation of a tacit collusion strategy. Thus, if not
only incumbent firms but also potential entrants into an industry are
included in an analysis, the VRIO framework developed in Chapter
Two can be extended to cooperative tacit collusion strategies. In this
context, the small-numbers industry attribute is equivalent to the
rarity requirement, and the barrier-to-entry industry attribute is
equivalent to the costly-to-duplicate requirement.
Organizing to Implement Tacit
Collusion
Objective 7.4 Describe two unique challenges associated with
              organizing to implement a collusion strategy.


As with all strategies, the return potential of tacit collusion depends
on the ability of firms to organize themselves to implement this
strategy. However, there are few organizational structures,
management controls, or compensation policies that are unique to
firms pursuing this strategy. Beyond these general categories, there
are two organizational issues that are particularly important and
unusual in implementing tacit collusion strategies: maintaining
organizational efficiency and organizational self-discipline.
Organizational Efficiency
One of the most significant organizational issues facing tacitly
colluding firms concerns the efficiency of their operations. Under
competitive conditions, firms are forced to keep their head count and
their overhead expenditures low and to cut out strategically
unimportant spending. Thus, competitive pressures tend to lead to
lean and efficient organizations. Firms that do not meet these criteria
either change or are forced out of business by more efficient firms.

Under tacit collusion, competitive pressures toward organizational
efficiency are not as pronounced. Indeed, the profits associated with
tacit collusion often depend on a firm not driving its cost to the lowest
possible level, not differentiating products as much as possible, and
so forth. Such competitive actions are likely to upset tacit collusion,
especially if they create cost or product heterogeneity, rivalry, and
price competition. In restraining these competitive tendencies,
colluding firms may decrease their overall efficiency and
effectiveness. This may not be a problem as long as tacit collusion
continues, and as long as barriers to entry are in place. However, if
collusion breaks down, or if entry occurs, inefficient organizations
may be subject to intense competitive pressures.


Given the fragile character of tacit collusion, and the threat of
potential entrants, colluding firms would be well advised to maintain
an efficient organization—to act as if they were facing a competitive
environment even though they are not. Of course, maintaining this
efficiency is likely to be difficult, given the constraints that tacit
collusion places on a firm. Moreover, such efficiency may be costly in
the face of current collusion and may reduce (somewhat) a firm’s
current economic profit. However, if tacit collusion might break down
sometime in the future, the ability to move quickly toward a more
efficient organization may be worthwhile.


Research on tacitly colluding, explicitly colluding, and monopolistic
firms suggests that most of these firms are unable to maintain high
levels of organizational efficiency. They tend to become top-heavy
with management, highly bureaucratic, risk-averse, overinvested in
luxurious office buildings, and so forth. For these reasons, tacit
collusion strategies appear to sow the seeds of their own
destruction. As tacitly colluding firms become progressively more
inefficient in their organization, they become more tempting prey for
more efficient new entrants. At some point, the low cost of displacing
inefficient incumbent firms may attract new entrants to an industry
despite substantial barriers to entry. 35
Organizational Self-Discipline
The other significant organizational challenge facing colluding firms
concerns the maintenance of self-discipline. Once a firm has
committed itself to a tacit collusion strategy, its willingness to stick to
that strategy will almost certainly be tested. Thus, for example, once
GE signaled that it would not engage in price competition in the
steam turbine industry, Westinghouse (its major competitor)
announced price reductions. In a sense, Westinghouse was testing
GE’s resolve to stick with its tacit collusion strategy. GE did reduce
its prices but gave its customers substantial rebates on previously
purchased products. This action indicated that GE would stick by its
commitment to price stability. Shortly thereafter, Westinghouse
increased its prices to match GE’s original prices, and price stability
continued in the industry for almost fifteen years. 36


Because tacitly colluding firms will almost certainly be tested in their
resolve to maintain price and output stability, the ability to implement
this strategy successfully depends on an unusual level of
organizational self-discipline. Only when a tacitly colluding firm
knows exactly what it is about and is able to refrain from competitive
actions in response to tests by its competitors is this strategy likely to
be successful. This self-discipline needs to be reinforced by
appropriate management control systems and compensation
policies.
Summary
Most of the business strategies discussed so far in this text have
focused on how firms can use their valuable and rare resources and
capabilities to successfully compete in an industry or market. This
chapter examines an alternative approach to gaining economic
profits: How firms can collude to reduce competition in a market or
industry.

Collusion exists when firms cooperate to reduce competition in an
industry, although not all forms of firm cooperation are collusive.
Collusion can be explicit—the result of face to face negotiations
between firms—or tacit—the result of sending signals of the intent to
cooperate to reduce competition. Explicit collusion is illegal in most
developed economies. Tacit collusion may be illegal.


Collusion generates economic profits by reducing supply below
demand. Collusion can also be used to improve the competitive
attributes of an industry by, for example, increasing barriers to entry
into an industry and reducing rivalry in an industry.

While there are often strong incentives to collude, once collusive
agreements are established, there are also strong reasons to defect
from these relationships. “Cheating” on these agreements can take
many different forms, and the type of cheating that occurs—Bertrand
cheating, Cournot cheating, Stackelberg cheating—has an impact on
the profits firms will earn after these arrangements unravel. If firms
cheat on price (Bertrand), no firms in an industry will earn any
economic profits. If firms cheat on quantity (Cournot), firms can earn
some profits in the industry, but they will not be as high as would
have been the case if they had continued to collude.


One of the reasons that tacit collusion is so difficult to sustain is that
signals about intentions to collude can be ambiguous. Firms can
gain some clarity about these signals if they evaluate whether or not
a firm’s actions will make it more or less likely to retaliate if another
firm “cheats” on a collusive agreement. The attributes of an industry
—especially the number of firms in an industry and the existence of
barriers to entry—can also be used to anticipate how likely it is that
collusive arrangements will last.


Organizing to implement collusive strategies presents two unique
challenges: How to keep a firm efficient and well managed when it
has successfully reduced the threat of competition and how to keep
a firm disciplined in implementing a collusion strategy when its
commitment to that strategy will almost certainly be tested by other
firms.
MyLab Management
Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management to
complete the problems marked with this icon   .
Challenge Questions
   7.1 Firms that engage in Cournot cheating will achieve higher
   levels of performance than will firms that engage in Bertrand
   cheating. Why, then, would firms ever engage in Bertrand
   cheating?
       7.2 Both cost homogeneity and product homogeneity
   enhance the ability of firms in an industry to implement tacit
   collusion strategies. Under what conditions, if any, would a
   firm be able to pursue a cost leadership strategy or a product
   differentiation strategy while simultaneously trying to
   implement a tacit collusion strategy? Are these strategies
   mutually exclusive?
       7.3 At one level, the requirement that all firms in an
   industry be involved in a tacit collusion strategy in order for
   that strategy to be viable seems to contradict the rareness
   and imitability requirements for sustained competitive
   advantage, first discussed in Chapter 4. Is it possible to
   rationalize this apparent contradiction? If yes, how? If no, why
   not?
   7.4 Some have argued that the implementation of a tacit
   collusion strategy will lead a firm to be relatively inefficient.
   Others have argued that the implementation of a tacit
   collusion strategy requires firms to be very efficient at
   implementing this strategy. Which is it? Do firms implementing
a tacit collusion strategy become less efficient or more
efficient? Justify your answer.
Problem Set
  7.5 The opening case of this chapter poses a specific
  strategic question. If you owned the established gas station,
  would you raise your gasoline prices or not? Why?




   MyLab Management
   Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management for
   Auto-graded writing questions as well as the following
   Assisted-graded writing questions:


            7.6. What is the relationship between
         industry characteristics and the development of
         collusion?
            7.7. What are the vulnerabilities of firms that
         organize to implement tacit collusion?
End Notes
1    See npr.org/sections/thesalt/2014/03/10/288570744/what-pepsi-can-teach-us-about-
soft-drink-dominance-in Russia. Coca-cola’s dominance was so great in Western Europe, in
2005 the EU implemented rules to reduce Coca-Cola’s market share. See
www.beveragedaily.com/Manufacturers/ED-curbs-Coca-Cola-market-dominance.
2    See Porter. “General Electric vs. Westinghouse in Large Turbine Generators (A).”
3    www.thebalance.com/opec-oil-embargo-causes-and-effects-3365806.
4    See J. Hirshleifer. (1980). Price Theory and its Applications. Upper Saddle River, NJ:
Prentice Hall.; H. Demsetz. (1973). “Industry Structure, Market Rivalry, and Public Policy.”
Journal of Law and Economics 16: 1 – 9.
5    AN 7 plus: bbc.co.uk/2/hi/business/7132108.stm and mentalfloss.com/article/
22843/5-brazen-examples-price-fixing.
6    M. Porter. (1980). Competitive Strategy. NY: Free Press.
7    www.jonesday.com/files/Publication/U.S. v Gunnison PDF.
8    J. Anton and D. Yao. (1995). “Standard Setting Consortia, Antitrust, and High
Technology Industries;.” Antitrust Law Journal 64(1): 247 – 265.
9    G. Grossman and E. Hellpman. (1994). “Protection for Sale.” American Economic
Review, 84: 833 – 850.
10    D. Besanko and R. Braeutigam. (2014). Microeconomics. 5th ed. NY: Wiley.
11    Recently, this traditional relationship between oil prices and alternative energy has
switched. With very low oil prices crude oil producers are investing even more heavily in
alternative energy as a substitute for their oil products. See www.mottmac.com/views/will-
the-falling-oil-price-boos-the-renewable-energy-market.
12    This analysis can be generalized to differentiated products. See J. Tirole, The Theory
of Industrial Organization. (Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1988).
13    J. Bertrand. “Théorie mathématique de la richesse sociale.” Journal des Savants
(1883): 499–508.
14    A. Cournot, Recherches sur les principes mathématiques de la théorie des richesses.
(1838); English edition: N. Bacon, Researches into the Mathematical Principles of the
Theory of Wealth. (London: Macmillan, 1897). Both Bertrand and Cournot are excellent
examples of dead economists.
15     F. Edgeworth. “La teoria pura del monopolio.” Giornale degli Economisti 40 (1897):
13–31; in English: F. Edgeworth. “The pure theory of monopoly.” in Papers Relating to
Political Economy 1 (1925).
16     H. von Stackelberg. Marktform und Gleichgewicht. (Vienna: Julius Springer, 1934).
17     For Bertrand and Cournot cheating when firms sell differentiated products, see R. L.
Hall and C. J. Hitch. “Price Theory and Business Behavior.” Oxford Economic Papers 2.
(1939): 1245; P. M. Sweezy. “Demand under Conditions of Oligopoly.” Journal of Political
Economy 45. (1939): 568–573; and H. Hotelling. “Stability in Competition.” Economic
Journal 39. (1929): 41–57. When there are time lags in discovering cheating, see Tirole,
The Theory of Industrial Organization. When firms interact simultaneously in several
markets, see R. D. Bernheim and M. D. Whinston. “Multimarket Contact and Collusive
Behavior.” Rand Journal of Economics 12 (1990): 605–617. When other firms can’t observe
price or quantity cheating, see E. J. Green and R. H. Porter. “Non-cooperative Collusion
under Imperfect Price Information.” Econometrica 52 (1984): 87–100. When prices cannot
be adjusted quickly, see E. Maskin and J. Tirole.“A Theory of Dynamic Oligopoly.”
Econometrica 56 (1988): 549–600; and J. Eaton and M. Engers. “International Price
Competition.” (mimeograph, University of Virginia, 1987). When firms have a reputation for
not retaliating against cheaters, see A. Ortega- Reichert. “Models for Competitive Bidding
under Uncertainty.” (dissertation, Stanford University, 1967).
18     See F. M. Scherer. Industrial Market Structure and Economic Performance. (Boston:
Houghton Mifflin, 1980). Some of these signals of intent to collude are discussed later.
19     See M. E. Porter. “General Electric vs. Westinghouse in Large Turbine Generators
(A).” (Harvard Business School Case no. 9-380-128, 1979).
20     This analysis was first developed by D. Fudenberg and J. Tirole, “The Fat Cat Effect,
the Puppy Dog Ploy, and the Lean and Hungry Look.” American Economic Review 74.
(1984): 361–366.
21     See J. Theroux and J. M. Hurstak. “Ben & Jerry’s Homemade Ice Cream Inc.:
Keeping the Mission(s) Alive.” (Harvard Business School Case no. 9-392-025, 1993).
22     See Discount Merchandiser. “It’s the IKEA Way or No Way.” 39, no. 1 (1999): 51–53.
23     See E. Nee. “Lew Platt: Why I Dismembered HP.” Fortune, March 29, 1999, 167–
170.
24     Scherer. Industrial Market Structure and Economic Performance.
25       See Z. Schiller. “Diamonds and Dirt.” Businessweek, August 10, 1992, 20–23; Z.
Schiller, “This Diamond Case Had Too Many Flaws.” Businessweek, December 19, 1992,
34; and R. Donoho. “GE Off Hook in Price-Fix case.” Sales and Marketing Management 147
(1992): 11.
26       Results that link the existence of price-fixing cartels and the number of colluding firms
can be found in C. D. Edwards. Cartelization in Western Europe. (Washington, DC: U.S.
Department of State, Government Printing Office, 1964); G. A. Hay and Kelly. “An Empirical
Survey of Price Fixing Conspiracies.” Journal of Law and Economics 17. (1974): 13–38.
Research on the relationship between market concentration and prices is reviewed in L.
Weiss, ed., Concentration and Price. (Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1989); and R.
Schmalansee. “Studies of Structure and Performance.” in R. Schmalansee and R. Willig,
eds., The Handbook of Industrial Organization. (Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1989).
27       Scherer. Industrial Market Structure and Economic Performance.
28       R. El Mallakh. OPEC: Twenty Years and Beyond. (Boulder, CO: Westview Press,
1982).
29       See J. W. Markham. “The Nature and Significance of Price Leadership.” American
Economic Review 41. (1951): 891–905; Scherer. Industrial Market Structure and Economic
Performance; and von Stackelberg. Marktform und Gleichgewicht.
30       L. J. White. The American Automobile Industry Since 1945. (Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press, 1971).
31       J. C. Spender. Industry Recipes: An Enquiry into the Nature and Sources of
Managerial Judgment. (New York: Blackwell, 1989).
32       A. Berstein. “The Baseball Owners Get Beaned.” Businessweek. October 15, 1990,
p. 122.
33       See E. Schine. “Northrop’s Biggest Foe May Have Been Its Past.” Businessweek.
May 6, 1991, pp. 30–31; and J. Cole. “Rising Turbulence: Boeing’s Dominance of Aircraft
Industry Is Beginning To Erode. Wall Street Journal. July 10, 1992, A1.
34       Scherer. Industrial Market Structure and Economic Performance.
35       See T. Jankik and A. Makhiga. (2005). “Can Diversification Create Value? Evidence
from the Electric Utility Industry.” Financial Management, 34(1); 61 – 93 and K. Palmer.
(1991). “Diversification by Regulated Monopolies and Incentives for Cost Reducing R&D.”
American Economic Review, 81(2): 266 – 270.
36       See Porter. “General Electric vs. Westinghouse in Large Turbine Generators (A).”
Case 2–1: McDonald’s:
Comeback in the U.S. Burger ‐
Market? *

* This case was prepared by William Hesterly for the purposes of class discussion.
McDonald’s, one of the world’s most iconic
brands and companies, faced a crossroad in its
comeback path. When Steve Easterbrook was
appointed CEO in 2015, the company had lost
an astonishing 500,000 U.S. customers in the ‐
previous four years. In 2015, for the first time,
McDonald’s closed more restaurants than it
opened. Same-store domestic sales fell 1.3
percent in 2016, and the number of customers
visiting McDonald’s fell 2.1 percent that year, the
fourth straight year for a decline in customers.
Reflecting this trend, many younger people had
never dined at McDonald’s. As indicated by its
recent declines in revenue and profit (see
Tables 1 and 2 ), McDonald’s faced a variety
of challenges. Prices in groceries fell at the
same time that the minimum wage was
increasing and increasing dramatically in some
cities and states. Given that labor was the
largest component of cost for restaurant chains,
the cost gap between dining out and eating in
was at its largest since the 1980s. Efforts to add
more products for health-conscious customers
such as salads and oatmeal had failed to attract
enough new customers to stem the decline. The
all-day breakfast menu, introduced in 2015, was
a hit, but by 2017, it was losing steam as an
engine of growth. A particularly salient threat
was the rise of fast, casual burger chains that
focused on better-tasting burgers. Chains such
as Five Guy’s, The Habit Burger Grill, ‐
SmashBurger, and In-N-Out among others were
expanding at a rapid rate. Such chains typically
started as regional enterprises, but each was ‐
expanding geographically. Five Guys,
particularly, had clearly broken out as a national
competitor.

Table 1 McDonald’s Income Statement, 2013-
16 (In Millions of USD except for per share
items)
Table 2 McDonald’s Balance Sheet, 2013-16
(In Millions of USD except for per share
items)
To combat the various threats it faced,
McDonald’s was implementing digital kiosks for
ordering. The company was also experimenting
with home delivery and table service. Perhaps
most importantly, McDonald’s was considering
changes in the way it prepared its burgers to
improve taste. Such changes had the potential
to significantly alter McDonald’s strategic
position with respect to cost and differentiation.
With McDonald’s stock price lagging behind both
the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average,
the company needed to figure the right path to a
more sustainable turnaround.
McDonald’s Model
McDonald’s employed the franchise business model for the vast
majority of its restaurants. The franchise model was credited with
McDonald’s sustained growth and global expansion. In many
instances, McDonald’s acquired and developed prime real estate
locations that it then leased back to franchisees. Some observers
argued that McDonald’s restaurants often enjoyed locational
advantages compared to other burger chains. McDonald’s set a goal
of going from 83% to 95% franchise ownership of its restaurants.
This would follow several other chains in what some termed the
asset-light business model. Burger King, Carl’s Jr., Hardee’s, Dunkin
Donuts, and Subway were all either 100-percent or nearly - 100-
percent franchised owned. The franchise model posed some
challenges. Getting franchisees to upgrade locations, adopt new
technologies, and change the standard McDonald’s menu often took
considerable time and effort. Such changes could take several
months at a minimum and, in some cases, several years.


Though there was some regional variability such as the McLobster in
Maine, McDonald’s offered a high degree of standardization in its
menu across the U.S. McDonald’s offered a breakfast menu, which
in 2015, was extended from only morning hours to an all-day
offering. McDonald’s was best known for its hamburgers, but offered
other items including Chicken McNuggets and a variety of
sandwiches. McDonald’s had emphasized with some success a
McCafé line of items such as coffee, latte, shakes and smoothies.
From time to time, McDonald’s had offered special items for a limited
time and had incrementally changed its menu from time to time.
Many observers argued that, because of McDonald’s immense
scale, menu changes often occurred slowly both in formulation and
implementation. For example, it did not expect to complete its plan to
switch to free range eggs until 2025.


Despite the extent of its franchising, McDonald’s was renowned for
the uniformity of experience and consistency in quality that it offered
customers. McDonald’s typically served food within minutes of a
customer’s order. It was not unusual for customers to receive their
food within one minute of ordering. While downtown McDonald’s
locations in the largest cities were an exception, most U.S.
McDonald’s locations offered drive-through service. Some estimates
put the percentage of revenue from drive-through customers at 70
percent of revenue for the typical McDonald’s. McDonald’s had
optimized its food production over several decades to deliver food of
consistent quality with the short waits that customers expected.
McDonald’s supply chain could procure, process, and deliver frozen
beef and potatoes to its stores with both high reliability and scale.
This system helped McDonald’s both reduce costs and ensure a
high degree of consistency. McDonald’s hamburgers were generally
cooked and then warmed before delivery to a customer. This allowed
McDonald’s to serve customers much faster than waiting for orders
before cooking the burgers.
Trends in Hamburgers
The market for premium burgers made with fresh beef had increased
dramatically in the previous decade and was expected to double
over the next five years. As recently as 2001, Five Guys had
consisted of five stores in the Washington D.C. area. By 2016, it had
more than 1,400 locations (see Table 3 ). Though much smaller
than Five Guys, Shake Shack was founded in 2004, and
Smashburger in 2007, while The Habit Burger Grill expanded from
23 restaurants in 2007 to 145 by 2016. Even In-N-Out, a California-
based chain that had traditionally eschewed growth and geographic
expansion, had grown from 89 locations in California and Las Vegas
in 1999 to over 300 locations in the western United States and
Texas. All of these chains featured menus with significantly fewer
items than McDonald’s and were, arguably, much more focused on
burgers. All featured burgers made from fresh beef that were cooked
upon order. This necessarily involved longer wait times (see Table 4
   ). Most did not offer drive-through service. In-N-Out was the
exception in that much of its business was drive-through and its
hamburgers were not offered at a premium price (see Table 5 ). In
addition to the several fast-growing chains that had emerged, there
were many smaller chains that operated in various cities across the
U.S. Multiple polls had shown consumers preferred the taste of
burgers from chains such as Habit, Smashburger, In-N-Out, Five
Guys, and Shake Shack among others to those of McDonald’s.
Many were limited to specific metropolitan areas while others had a
larger geographic footprint. McDonald’s also faced competition from
its larger traditional competitors such as Burger King, Wendy’s, Jack
in the Box, as well as Carl’s Jr. and its sister chain, Hardee’s. Unlike
the upstarts in the premium segment, the traditional competitors had
not experienced significant growth in previous years. At one point
after 2010, Burger King experienced same-store sales declines for
11 consecutive quarters. The number of Wendy’s locations had
declined from approximately 6,500 to 5,722 in the U.S. since 2011.


Table 3 Number of U.S. Locations for McDonald’s and Burger
Competitors
Table 4 McDonald’s Versus Select Competitors on Time to Serve


Table 5 McDonalds and Select Competitors Price Comparisons
McDonald’s Strategy
The growth in premium burgers made from fresh beef was not lost
on McDonald’s as consumer ratings showed the company lagging
behind competitors on burger taste (see Tables 5 and 6 ). The
company initially responded by experimenting with the removal of
artificial preservatives and replacing margarine with butter among
other similar changes. McDonald’s then used Dallas as a test market
for hamburgers made from fresh beef. The fresh-beef burgers were
well-received by customers who rated them higher in taste than
McDonald’s traditional burgers. McDonald’s announced in March
2017 that, by mid-2018, Quarter Pounders would be prepared with
fresh beef in a majority of its restaurants. Quarter Pounders would
also be cooked when ordered rather than cooked previously and
stored in warmers.


Table 6 Consumer Reports Burger Ratings, 2014
A shift to fresh beef was not without risks. Industry insiders
suggested that employing fresh beef in burgers could extend the
time between the order and the serving of a burger. Using fresh beef
would likely increase the cost of burgers. Price sensitive customers
might be less inclined to purchase McDonald’s burgers. The use of
fresh beef increased health risks as well. Fresh beef was much more
susceptible to viruses than frozen beef. Chipotle’s had still not fully
recovered its customer base from problems with bacterial
contamination more than two years earlier. A change to fresh beef
would also dramatically change McDonald’s supply chain and
logistics for delivering beef to its stores.


McDonald’s announced in March 2017 that it would roll out mobile
ordering to all of its U.S. locations. Pizza chains had successfully
used mobile ordering for years. In another action that followed long-
standing practice by pizza chains, McDonald’s also announced that it
would dramatically accelerate and scale food delivery. The company
had long experimented with delivery and already offered it in markets
other than the U.S., particularly Asia and the Middle East. It was not
clear how McDonald’s planned to rapidly scale delivery, but there
was considerable industry speculation that the company might enter
an alliance with a delivery service firm such as GrubHub, Inc.
McDonald’s vast superiority in the number of its restaurants was
seen as an advantage in delivery. Many more potential customers
lived or worked close to a McDonald’s compared to rivals in burgers
and fast food generally. In addition to delivery and mobile ordering,
the company also planned to spend approximately $1 billion
renovating its existing stores.
As part of McDonald’s turnaround strategy, the company planned to
emphasize the McCafe drinks. In February of 2017, the company
announced that McCafe drinks would sell for $2. More generally,
McDonald’s had placed a global emphasis on serving high quality
coffee at a price considerably less than coffee houses.

Most of McDonald’s strategic moves—such as the emphases on
mobile ordering and store renovation—were seen as either low-risk
or catch-up strategies. A shift to fresh beef would potentially have a
more profound effect on the company. Would McDonald’s traditional
price-sensitive customers pay a premium for more costly burgers?
Would they tolerate longer waits both in the restaurants and drive-
throughs?
Bibliography
“A Closer Look at McDonald’s Next ’Big Change’.” Forbes, March 31,
   2017. https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2017/
   03/31/a-closer-look-at-mcdonalds-next-bigchange/
   #c69c40a57277.


Giammona, Craig. “McDonald’s All-Day Breakfast Push No Longer
   Fueling Growth.” Bloomberg, January 23, 2017. https://
   www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-01-23/mcdonald-s-
   profit-beats-estimates-as-turnaround-gathers-steam.


Jargon, Julie. “McDonald’s Knows It’s Losing the Burger Battle – Can
   It Come Back?” Wall Street Journal, October 6, 2016. https://
   www.wsj.com/articles/mcdonalds-knows-its-losing-the-
   burger-battlecan-it-come-back-1475769684.


Jargon, Julie. “McDonald’s, Slow to Industry Trends, Cooks Up
   Changes.” Wall Street Journal, January 12, 2017.
   https://www.wsj.com/articles/mcdonalds-knows-itslosing-the-
   burger-battlecan-it-come-back-1475769684.


La Monica, Paul R. “The Great American McDonald’s Comeback
   May Be Over.” CNN Money, January 23, 2017. http://
   money.cnn.com/2017/01/23/investing/mcdonalds-earnings/.


Maynard, Micheline. “With Half A Billion Customers Lost,
   McDonald’s Gambles on Mobile Ordering To Get Them Back.”
   Forbes, March 1, 2017. https://www.forbes.com/sites/
   michelinemaynard/2017/03/01/with-half-a-billion-customers-
   lost-mcdonaldsgambles-on-mobile-ordering-to-get-them-
   back/#61c67c6e55e3.


Marks, Tod. “Where to Buy a Better Burger.” Consumer Reports,
  October 28, 2016. http://www.consumerreports.org/food/
  where-to-buy-a-better-burger/.


“McDonald’s Corporation Form 10-K,” 2016. http://
   corporate.mcdonalds.com/content/dam/AboutMcDonalds/
   Investors/2016%20Annual%20Report.pdf.


Mourdoukoutas, Panos. “How McDonald’s Keeps Bouncing Back.”
  Forbes, December 18, 2016. https://www.forbes.com/sites/
   panosmourdoukoutas/2016/12/18/how-mcdonalds-wins/
   #7732987865d0.


Patton, Leslie. “McDonald’s Sees $100 Billion Delivery Market as
   Way to Grow.” Bloomberg. Accessed May 28, 2017.
   https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-03-01/mcdonald-
   s-sees-100-billion-delivery-market-as-key-to-growth.
Turner, Nick. “McDonald’s to Start Using Fresh Beef in ’Watershed
   Moment’.” Bloomberg. Accessed May 28, 2017. https://
   www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-03-30/mcdonald-s-
   plans-to-use-fresh-beef-nationwide-in-strategic-shift.
Case 2–2: The Levi’s Personal
Pair Proposal*

*Used with permission of Professor Russell Coff and the Goizueta Business School.
“I’ll have my recommendation to you by the end
of the week.” Heidi Green hung up the phone
and surveyed her calendar for appointments that
could be pushed into the next week. It was a
rainy afternoon in December of 1994 and she
had yet to recover from the pre-holiday rush to
get product out to retailers.

She had three days to prepare a presentation
for the Executive Committee on a new concept
called Personal Pair. Custom Clothing
Technology Corporation (CCTC) had
approached Levi Strauss with the joint venture
proposal that would marry Levi’s core products
with the emerging technologies of mass
customization. Jeans could be customized in
style and fit to meet each customer’s unique
needs and taste. If CCTC was correct, this
would reach the higher end of the jeans market,
yielding stronger profit margins due to both the
price premium and the streamlined production
process involved.

On the other hand, the technology was new to
Levi Strauss and the idea could turn out to be an
expensive and time-consuming proposal that
would come back later to haunt her, since she
would have to manage the venture. The initial
market studies seemed supportive, but there
was no way to know how customers would
respond to the program since there was nothing
quite like it out there. She also was unsure
whether the program would work as smoothly in
practice as the plan suggested.
Company Background and History
Levi Strauss and Co. is a privately held company owned by the
family of its founder, Levi Strauss. The Bavarian immigrant was the
creator of durable work pants from cloth used for ships’ sails, which
were reinforced with his patented rivets. The now-famous “waist-
overalls” were originally created over 130 years ago for use by
California gold rush workers. These were later seen as utilitarian
farm- or factory-wear. By the 1950s, Levi’s jeans had acquired a
Hollywood cachet, as the likes of Marilyn Monroe, James Dean,
Marlon Brando, Elvis, and Bob Dylan proudly wore them, giving off
an air of rebellious hipness. The jeans would become a political
statement and an American icon, as all jeans soon became known
generically as “Levi’s.” The baby boomer generation next adopted
the jeans as a fashion statement, and from 1964 to 1975, the
company’s annual sales grew tenfold, from $100 million to $1 billion.
2 By the late 1970s, Levi’s had become synonymous with the terms,

“authentic,” “genuine,” “original,” and “real,” and wearing them
allowed the wearer to make a statement. According to some who
recognize the brand’s recognition even over that of Coke, Marlboro,
Nike, or Microsoft, “Levi Strauss has been, and remains, both the
largest brand-apparel company in the world and the number one
purveyor of blue jeans in the world.”

While blue jeans remain the company’s mainstay, the San
Francisco–based company also sells pants made of corduroy, twill,
and various other fabrics, as well as shorts, skirts, jackets, and
outerwear. The company, with its highly recognizable brand name,
holds a top position in many of its markets, and is sold in more than
80 countries. More than half of the company’s revenue was from its
U.S. sales; nevertheless, Europe and Asia are highly profitable
markets. Latin America and Canada are secondary markets, with
smaller contributions to overall profits. As the following graphic
shows, apparel imports were increasing faster than exports during
this period.




Import and Exports of Apparel (in billions of dollars)
Source: U.S. Department of Commerce.




The company’s non-denim brand, Dockers, was introduced in 1986,
and is sold in the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Europe. While
it is composed of both women’s and men’s clothing, the men’s line of
khaki pants occupies the leading position in U.S. sales of khaki
trousers and sells well with baby boomers. Sales of Dockers have
steadily increased with the rise in casual workplaces, and this line of
non-denim products has helped in allowing Levi’s to be less reliant
on the denim industry.
Competition and the Denim
Industry
Denim is “one of the fastest-growing apparel fabrics,” and sales have
been increasing approximately 10% per year. According to some
surveys, an average American consumer owns 17 denim items,
which includes 6 to 7 pairs of jeans.3 Levi Strauss and Company
held the largest market share in 1990, at 31 percent, followed by VF
Corporation’s Lee and Wrangler (17.9 percent), designer labels (6
percent), The Gap (3 percent), and department store private labels
(3.2 percent). By 1995, women’s jeans had grown to a $2 billion
market, of which Levi’s held first place.


However, at the same time, many jeans producers were starting to
move production to low-cost overseas facilities, which allowed for
cost (especially labor) advantages. As the following graph shows,
this trend was represented throughout the apparel industry and is
clearly visible in employment statistics. Indeed, JCPenney, one of
Levi’s long-time partners, had become a competitor by introducing a
cheaper alternative, the Arizona label. They and other rivals had
realized that by sourcing all production in cheap overseas facilities
they could enter the business with a cost advantage over Levi
Strauss.
U.S. Apparel Industry Employment (production workers, in
millions)
Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics.




Levi’s, as a private company that viewed itself as having a strong
“social conscience,” wanted to avoid being seen as exploiting
disadvantaged workers. Accordingly, they preferred to have their
jeans “U.S.-made,” and Levi Strauss was a leader in providing
generous salary and benefits packages to its employees.

Accordingly, it did not relish the notion of entering into price-based
competition with rivals committed to overseas production. Their
delayed response led to some significant incursions by rivals into
Levi’s core product arenas.
Levi’s also wanted to avoid price-based competition because they
had a history of brand recognition and brand loyalty. They were
accustomed to the Levi’s brand carrying enough clout to justify a
reasonable price premium. However, over the years, the brand name
carried less cachet, and as hundreds of competitors with similar
products dotted the landscape, it became necessary to create valued
features that would help to differentiate the product in the eyes of
consumers.


Levi Strauss’ financial performance is summarized in Exhibit 1 for
the period from 1990 to 1994. While the company was profitable
throughout the period, revenue growth had clearly slowed and
income growth was quite uneven. This is especially apparent for
1994, where net income dropped by 35 percent due to fierce
competition for market share and narrowing margins.


Exhibit 1 Levi Strauss Financial Performance
Cost Structure
Exhibit 2   provides an estimate of the cost and margins on an
average pair of jeans sold through Levi’s two outlets. Much of their
product was sold through wholesale channels, to be distributed by
competing retailers. However, Levi’s maintained a chain of Original
Levi’s Stores (OLS) primarily to help keep them closer to the
customer. The profit per pair of jeans was about 30% lower in the
wholesale channel ($2 as opposed to $3). This was driven by the
30% margin that accrued to the channel, and which was somewhat
balanced by the higher costs of operating the OLS outlets (especially
the additional SG&A costs for operating the stores).


Exhibit 2 Profitability Analysis of Women’s Jeans
Exhibit 2     also indicates the ongoing investment per pair of jeans.
Once this is considered, the wholesale outlets are nearly twice as
profitable—the pre-tax return on invested capital is 15 percent, as
opposed to 8 percent. Here, the OLS outlets required additional
investment in inventory ($8/pair), which was normally borne by the
retailer, and the capital tied up in the retail stores ($20/pair).
Mass Customization
Mass customization uses emerging communication and computer
technologies to bypass the limitations of traditional mass production
methods. From a strategic standpoint, the concept is based on the
idea that “the ultimate niche is a market of one.”4 Previously, it was
thought that highly-customized products were necessarily expensive
to produce; however, with the advent of various information
technologies, meeting the customer’s needs for flexibility and greater
choice in the marketplace is becoming more and more economical.

  “A silent revolution is stirring in the way things are made and services are delivered.
  Companies with millions of customers are starting to build products designed just for
  you. You can, of course, buy a Dell computer assembled to your exact
  specifications. . . . But you can also buy pills with the exact blend of vitamins, minerals,
  and herbs that you like, glasses molded to fit your face precisely, CD’s with music tracks
  that you choose, cosmetics mixed to match your skin tone, textbooks whose chapters
  are picked out by your professor, a loan structured to meet your financial profile, or a
  night at a hotel where everyone knows your favorite wine. And if your child does not like
  any of Mattel’s 125 different Barbie dolls, she will soon be able to design her own.” 5


There is, of course, a delicate balance between providing consumers
enough flexibility to meet their needs without so much that the
decision-making process becomes perplexing and the company’s
costs spiral out of control trying to meet the customers’ phantom
needs.
In the early 1990s, Levi Strauss found itself facing a dual set of
competitors. There were the low-cost, high-volume producers with a
distinct advantage over Levi’s, and there were also the higher-cost
producers of jeans that targeted the affluent end of the denim-buying
public. As a high-volume producer with a cost disadvantage, Levi’s
increasingly found itself at a disadvantage in both the upper and
lower ends of the apparel market.
Personal Pair Proposal
Proponents of the Personal Pair project envisioned a niche that
would allow Levi’s to avoid competing against the low-cost high-
volume producers. Market research revealed that only a quarter of
women were truly happy with the fit of their jeans, and the company
hoped to attract higher-income customers who would be willing to
pay a little extra for a perfect fit.

In addition, a mass customization model could lower costs as well as
provide the differentiation advantage since the re-engineered
process is often more efficient once new technologies are applied.
For example, the mass customization model, which operates on the
“pull-driven” approach of having the customer drive the production
process, would lower distribution costs and inventories of unsold
products.

Personal Pair was a jeans customization program made possible
through a joint venture with Custom Clothing Technology Corporation
(CCTC), in Newton, Massachusetts. CCTC approached Levi
Strauss, described the potential of its technology, and suggested
that, together, the two companies could enter the mass
customization arena.

The Personal Pair proposal reflected a form of collaborative
customization. This approach helps customers who find the array of
choices in the marketplace overwhelming to narrow down their
specific needs. The company enters into a dialogue with customers
to help them understand what they need, and is then able to provide
specialized products that meet that specific need. Collaborative
customizers are able to keep inventories of finished products at a
minimum, which brings new products to market faster. That is, they
manufacture products in a “just-in-time” fashion to respond to
specific customer requests.
How It Would Work.
Original Levi’s Stores (OLS) would be equipped with networked PC’s
and Personal Pair kiosks. Trained sales clerks would measure
customers’ waist, hips, rise, and inseam, resulting in one of 4,224
possible size combinations—a dramatic increase over the 40
combinations normally available to customers. The computer would
then generate a code number that corresponded to one of 400
prototype pairs of jeans kept in the kiosk. Within three tries, more
measurements would be taken and a perfect fit would be obtained;
the customer would then pay for the jeans and opt for Federal
Express delivery ($5 extra) or store pickup, with a full money-back
guarantee on every pair.


The order was then sent to CCTC in Boston via a Lotus Notes
computer program. This program would “translate” the order and
match it with a pre-existing pattern at the Tennessee manufacturing
facility. The correct pattern would be pulled, “read,” and transferred
to the cut station, where each pair was cut individually. A sewing line
composed of eight flexible team members would process the order, it
would be sent to be laundered, and it would be inspected and
packed for shipping. A bar code would be sewn into each pair to
simplify reordering details, and the customer would have a custom-fit
pair within three weeks.


Once the program was underway, the proposal suggested that about
half of the orders would be from existing customers. Reordering
would be simplified and encouraged by the bar code sewn into each
pair. In addition, reorders could be handled through a web-based
interface.


Pricing.
There was some question about how much of a price premium the
new product would command. The proposal called for a $15
premium (over the standard $50/pair off the rack) and focus groups
suggested that women, in particular, would consider this a fair price
to pay for superior fit. However, other’s argued that this price point
was a bit optimistic, suggesting that $5 or $10 might be more
realistic given the lower-priced alternatives.


Planned Scope.
The initial proposal was to equip four Original Levi’s Stores (OLS)
with Personal Pair kiosks and specialized PCs. Once the systems
were worked out, this would be expanded to more than 60 kiosks
across the United States and Canada. In addition, they envisioned
opening kiosks in London where they estimated that the product
would command a premium of £19 over the original £46 price for
standard jeans. The jeans would still be produced in Tennessee and
shipped via Federal Express.
Cost Impact.
Although the new process would require some investments in
technology and process changes, many other costs were projected
to drop. These are illustrated by the complex supply chain for the
OLS channel ( Exhibit 3     ) and the relatively simple supply chain
for the proposed Personal Pair program ( Exhibit 4     ).
Exhibit 3 Traditional Original Levi’s Store Supply Chain
Source: Adapted from Carr, 1998.
Exhibit 4 Personal Pair Value Chain
*Although this approach changes cutting from 60-ply to one, it does
not otherwise change manufacturing since jeans were, and are,
sewn one pair at a time.


   The most obvious ongoing cost savings would be in distribution.
   Here, the order is transmitted electronically and the final product
   is shipped directly to the customer at his/her expense. These
   costs would be nearly eliminated in the proposed program.
   Manufacturing and raw materials would not change much since
   all jeans are hand sewn and would use the same materials for
   the traditional and mass-customized processes.
   The portion of SG&A expenses attributable to retail operations
   would be reduced if 50% of the sales are reorders that do not
   incur incremental costs in the retail stores ($5/pair savings).
   However, CCTC would incur its own SG&A costs that would have
   to be considered (about $3/pair).
   Finally, no price adjustments would be needed in such a tight
   channel since there would be no inventory of finished product. In
   the retail channel, about one-third of jeans are sold at a discount
   to clear out aging stock (the discounts average 30 percent).6
Investment Impact.
While the factory PP&E was not projected to change much (they
would continue to use the same facilities), a number of other factors
would impact the invested capital tied up in a pair of jeans (both
positively and negatively) under the proposed program:


Increases in invested capital:

   First, there would be an initial $3 million required to integrate the
   systems of CCTC with Levi’s existing systems. This was
   relatively small since it was a matter of integrating existing
   systems in the two companies.
   CCTC would also require additional IT investments estimated at
   $10/pair to maintain the system and upgrade it regularly as scale
   requirements increased.
   In addition, the kiosks would take up about one-third of the space
   in the OLS retail stores (about $7/pair for retail space).


Decreases in invested capital:


   The required inventory was significantly lower under the
   proposed program. Recent estimates calculated Levi’s average
   inventory at about eight months.7 In contrast, the Personal Pair
   program called for no inventory of finished product and only a
   small inventory of raw materials (about $1/pair).
   Finally, the proposal suggested that accounts receivable would
   lead to a net gain of about $2/pair since customers would have
paid about three weeks prior to receiving the product (similar to
the Amazon.com model).
Cost-Efficient Mass Customization.
In order for a company to transform an existing product into one that
is cost-efficient to mass produce, certain product modifications must
be made. The Personal Pair proposal incorporated several of the key
elements suggested as helpful for implementing successful mass-
customization programs.8


First, it is important to introduce the differentiating component of the
product (that which must be customized) as late in the production
process as possible. For example, paint is not mixed by the
manufacturer, but at the point of sale, after being demanded by
individual customers. Unfortunately, the making of personalized
jeans would not lend itself to a differentiating component late in the
production process. Therefore, in this case, the customizing would
have to take place at the beginning of the process.

Then, it is helpful if either the product or the process of
manufacturing can be easily separated into production modules.
Steps in the process can then be reassembled in a different order.
For example, a sweater manufacturer might wait until the last
possible moment to dye its products in different colors for each
season, instead of dying the wool first and knitting the sweaters. This
allows for much more flexibility and helps the manufacturer to keep
up with fast moving fashion trends. The Personal Pair proposal
suggested that the manufacturing process would be modified to
allow for better flow—specifically teams would be used to allow for
more flexibility and handling of custom products. Unfortunately, since
elements in the jean manufacturing process do not always come
together in the same way, it would be important that employees
accumulate a large range of skills to accommodate idiosyncratic
problems that cannot be anticipated.

Finally, it is helpful if either the products or the sub-processes in the
manufacturing chain are standardized. This allows for more efficient
production and inventory management, whether it be for different
types of domestic uses or different markets (for example,
international as well as domestic markets were served by a printer
manufacturer that allowed all its printers to be adjusted for both
110/220-volt usage). Here, the Personal Pair proposal called for a
complex computer program with computerized patterns that were
then beamed directly to the cutting floor. This would help them to
integrate some technology-enhanced sub-processes with existing
standard labor-intensive manufacturing methods.


It also goes without saying that all the parts of the new mass
customization process need to come together in an “instantaneous,
costless, seamless, and frictionless manner.”9
The Decision.
As Heidi leaned back and gazed outside at the rain-soaked plaza,
she considered the pros and cons to the proposal. The proposal
carried several risks that she could not fully quantify. First, there was
the ability of Levi Strauss to implement new technologies. Second,
the cost savings in the proposal were based on CCTC’s estimates in
their proposal for the program. Would the program still be successful
if the costs turned out to be very different? Third, market research
indicated that women were not satisfied about fit. How much would
they be willing to pay for a better fit?


On another level, she wondered about the competition. If the
program were successful, would their low-cost rivals dive into this
market as well? Did Levi’s have any advantage here? What if they
did not move forward with the proposal? Would one of their rivals
partner with CCTC?
Bibliography
1. Aron, L. J. (1998). “From push to pull: The supply chain
    management shifts.” Apparel Industry Magazine, 59(6), pp. 58–
   59.


2. (1999.) “Jeanswear gets squeezed: Plants close at Levi’s.”
    Apparel Industry Magazine, 60(3), p. 10.

3. Billington, J. 1997. “How to customize for the real world.” Harvard
    Management Update, Reprint #U9704A.

4. Bounds, W. (1998.) “Inside Levi’s race to restore a tarnished
    brand.” The Wall Street Journal, August 4, p. B1.

5. Carr, L., W. Lawler, and J. Shank. (1998.) “Levi’s Personal Pair
    cases A, B, and Teaching Note.” F. W. Olin Graduate School of
   Business, Babson College, December, #BAB020, BAB021, and
   BAB520.


6. Chaplin, H. (1999.) “The truth hurts.” American Demographics,
    21(4), pp. 68–69.

7. Charlet, J-C., and E. Brynjolfsson. (1998.) “Broad vision.” Stanford
    University Graduate School of Business Case #OIT-21, March.
8. Church, E. (1999.) “Personal pair didn’t fit into Levi Strauss’s
   plans.” The Globe and Mail, May 27, p. B13.

9. Collett, S. (1999.) “Levi shuts plants, misses trends.”
   Computerworld, March 1, p. 16.


10. (2001). “Keeping the customer satisfied.” The Economist, July
   14, pp. 9–10; and (2001). “Mass customization: A long march.”
   The Economist, Special Report, July 14, pp. 63–65.

11. Ellison, S. (2001.) “Levi’s is ironing some wrinkles out of its
   sales.” The Wall Street Journal, February 12, p. B9.


12. Espen, H. (1999.) “Levi’s blues.” New York Times Magazine,
   March 21, p. 6.


13. Esquivel, J. R., and H. C. Belpedio. (2001). Textile and Apparel
   Suppliers Industry Overview, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, March
   14, pp. 1–72.

14. Feitzinger, E., and H. L. Lee. (1997). “Mass customization at
   Hewlett-Packard: The power of postponement.” Harvard
   Business Review, January–February, Reprint #97101, pp. 116–
   121.

15. (2001). FITCH Company Reports, Levi Strauss and Co.,
   February 15, www.fitchratings.com.
16. (2000). FITCH Company Reports, Levi Strauss and Co., October
   31, www.fitchratings.com.


17. (1999.) FITCH Company Reports, Levi Strauss and Co., March
   18, www.fitchratings.com.

18. Gilbert, C. (1998.) “Did modules fail Levi’s or did Levi’s fail
   modules?” Apparel Industry Magazine, 59(9), pp. 88–92.


19. Gilmore, J. H. (1997.) “The four faces of mass customization.”
   Harvard Business Review, January–February, Reprint #97103,
   pp. 91–101.

20. Ginsberg, S. (1998.) “Ripped Levi’s: Blunders, bad luck take toll.”
   San Francisco Business Times, 13(18).


21. Hill, S. (1999.) “Levi Strauss and Co.: Icon in revolution.” Apparel
   Industry Magazine, 60(1), pp. 66–69.


22. Hill, S. (1998.) “Levi Strauss puts a new spin on brand
   management.” Apparel Industry Magazine, November, pp. 46–47.


23. Hofman, M. (1999.) “Searching for the mountain of youth.” Inc.,
   21(18), pp. 33–36.

24. Homer, E. (2001.) “Levi’s zips up first ever private deal.” Private
   Placement Letter, July 23.
25. Hunt, B. C., and M. O. Doehla. (1999.) FirstUnion Industry
   Report. Denim Industry, February 23.


26. Jastrow, D. (1999.) “Saying no to Web sales.” Computer Reseller
   News, November 29, Issue 871, p. 73.

27. Johnson, G. (1998.) “Jeans war: Survival of the fittest.” Los
   Angeles Times, December 3, p. C1.

28. King, R. T., Jr. (1998.) “Jeans therapy: Levi’s factory workers are
   assigned to teams, and morale takes a hit.” The Wall Street
   Journal, May 20, p. A1.

29. Laberis, B. (1999.) “Levi’s shows it may not be driver it pretends
   to be.” Computerworld, 33(15) p. 36.

30. Lee, J. (1999.) “Can Levi’s ever be cool again?” Marketing, April
   15, pp. 28–29.

31. Lee, L. (2000.) “Can Levi’s be cool again?” BusinessWeek,
   March 13, pp. 144–148.


32. Levi Strauss and Company Promotional Materials.

33. Levine, B. (1999.) “Fashion fallout from the Levi Strauss layoffs.”
   Los Angeles Times, March 1, p. 1.
34. Magretta, J. (1998.) “The power of virtual integration: An
   interview with Dell Computer’s Michael Dell.” Harvard Business
   Review, March–April, Reprint #98208, pp. 73–84.

35. Meadows, S. (2000.) “Levi shifts on-line strategy.” Bobbin, 41(5),
   p. 8.

36. Merrill Lynch Company Report, Levi Strauss and Co., Global
   Securities Research and Economics Group. March 23, 2001.

37. Merrill Lynch Company Report, Levi Strauss and Co., Global
   Securities Research and Economics Group. January 11, 2001.


38. Merrill Lynch Company Report, Levi Strauss and Co., Global
   Securities Research and Economics Group. September 20, 2000.


39. Munk, N. (1999.) “How Levi’s trashed a great American brand.”
   Fortune, 139(7), pp. 82–90.


40. (1999.) “The view from outside: Levi’s needs more than a patch.”
   The New York Times, February 28, p. 4.

41. Pine, B. J. II. (1996). “Serve each customer efficiently and
   uniquely.” Network Transformation, BCR, January, pp. 2–5.

42. Pine, B. J. II, B. V., and A. C. Boynton. (1993). “Making mass
   customization work.” Harvard Business Review, September–
   October, Reprint #93509, pp. 108–116.
43. Pressler, M. W. (1998.) “Mending time at Levi’s: Jeans maker
   struggles to recapture youth market, reshape its culture.” The
   Washington Post, April 12, p. HO1.


44. Reidy, C. (1999.) “In marketplace, they’re no longer such a great
   fit.” Boston Globe, February 23, p. A1.

45. Reda, S. (1999.) “Internet channel conflicts.” Stores, 81(12), pp.
   24–28.

46. Robson, D. (1999.) “Levi showing new signs of fraying in San
   Francisco.” San Francisco Business Times, 14(10), p. 1.

47. Rosenbush, S. (1998). “Personalizing service on Web.” USA
   Today, November 16, p. 15E.

48. Schoenberger, K. (2000). “Tough jeans, a soft heart and frayed
   earnings.” The New York Times, June 25, p. 3.

49. Schonfeld, E. (1998.) “The customized, digitized, have-it-your-
   way economy.” Fortune, September 28.


50. Stoughton, S. (1999.) “Jeans market now a tight fit for Levi’s;
   Denim leader missed marketing opportunities, failed to spot
   trends.” The Washington Post, February 23, p. E1.

51. Trebay, G. (2001). “What’s stonewashed, ripped, mended and
   $2,222?” The New York Times, April 17, p. 10, col. 1.
52. Voight, J. (1999.) “Red, white, and blue: An American icon fades
   away.” Adweek, 40(17), pp. 28–35.


53. Watson, R. T., S. Akselsen, and L. F. Pitt. (1998). “Attractors:
   Building mountains in the flat landscape of the World Wide Web.”
   California Management Review, 40(2 Winter), pp. 36–54.


54. Zito, K. (2000.) “Levi reveals rare look at inner secrets.” San
   Francisco Chronicle, May 6, p. B1.
End Notes
1    This case was prepared by Farah Mihoubi under the supervision of Associate
Professor Russell Coff of the Goizueta Business School, as the basis for class discussion,
rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective management. Information assembled
from published sources and interviews with company sources. Copyright 2001, by the
Goizueta Business School, Case and Video Series, Atlanta, Georgia, 30322, U.S.A. All
rights reserved.
2    Espen, H. (1999.) “Levi’s blues.” New York Times Magazine, March 21, p. 6.
3    Levine, B. (1999.) “Fashion fallout from the Levi Strauss layoffs.” Los Angeles Times,
March 1, p. 1.
4    Schonfeld, E. (1998.) “The customized, digitized, have-it-your-way economy.” Fortune,
September 28.
5    Ibid.
6    Carr, L., W. Lawler, and J. Shank. (1998.) “Levi’s Personal Pair cases A, B, and
Teaching Note.” F. W. Olin Graduate School of Business, Babson College, December,
#BAB020, BAB021, and BAB520.
7    Ibid.
8    Billington, J. (1997.) “How to customize for the real world” Harvard Management
Update, Reprint #U9704A.
9    Pine, B. Joseph II. “Serve each customer efficiently and uniquely.” Network
Transformation, BCR, January 1996, pp. 2–5.
Case 2–3: Papa John’s
International, Inc.: Growth
Challenges*

*This case is adapted from a report prepared by Rebekah Meier, Wade Okelberry, Odie
Washington, Chad Witcher, and J. C. Woelich.
Papa John’s International was a classic
American success story. Founder John
Schnatter had started selling pizza out of a
makeshift kitchen in a small lounge in Indiana,
and in a little more than a decade had built a
business that included more than 4,000
locations. After a slowdown in growth following
the 2008 economic crisis, Papa John’s had
returned to its pre-crisis pattern of opening more
than 200 stores per year. Such ambition was not
without challenges. The U.S. economy had
changed over the two decades that Papa John’s
had been in business due to an aging population
and to the severe economic crisis that faced the
nation starting in 2008. The economy had been
particularly challenging for firms serving food
and drinks. Though clearly profitable (see
Exhibit 1 ), Papa John’s had enjoyed
relatively incremental growth in the new century.
Despite the challenges, the leadership at Papa
John’s believed that the company had
developed some important advantages that
could be leveraged for high growth in either the
United States or international markets or
perhaps even in activities that went beyond
pizza. The question facing Papa John’s
executives was which path would produce rapid
but profitable growth.
Exhibit 1 Papa John’s, Inc., Income
Statement and Balance Sheet, 2009–2012
Firm History and Background
By using fresh dough and superior-quality ingredients, Schnatter
believed that he could make a better pizza than others. When
Schnatter opened his first Papa John’s in 1985, his expectations
were not very high. The first Papa John’s was a sit-down restaurant.
Schnatter learned that he wasn’t very good at the sit-down
restaurant when he tried to serve too many different items. He paid
careful attention to what customers liked and did not like and
adjusted his menu accordingly. 1


The company grew rapidly, opening eight stores during its first year
of operation. Papa John’s generated revenues of $500,000 in its first
year. 2 In January 1986, Papa John’s sold its first franchise. The
company remained private until the initial public stock offering on
June 8, 1993, under the symbol PZZA. Papa John’s total revenues
for the year ending in December 1992 were close to $50 million,
having roughly doubled in size every year since 1986. After going
public, the company experienced an accelerated domestic growth in
the number of restaurants and opened its first international
restaurant in 1998. International growth was aided by the 205-unit
acquisition of “Perfect Pizza,” the quality leader for pizzas in the
United Kingdom.

This domestic and international growth continued unabated until
2001, when it decreased dramatically leading to a 1 percent
contraction in domestic growth in 2003. Since 2003, growth has
been positive and relatively stable, and Papa John’s executives
believed that there was significant opportunity for domestic unit
growth. Papa John’s was among the highest return on invested
capital (ROIC) in the restaurant category. While domestic growth
was anticipated to be stable, international opportunities were
significantly large and promising. Papa John’s had 350 domestic
restaurants and 1,100 international restaurants that were
contractually scheduled to open over the following 10 years. 3 Exhibit
2 shows the historical growth of Papa John’s restaurants including
projected growth through 2017 and Exhibit 3 reports the current
international locations of Papa John’s restaurants.
Business Structure
Papa John’s had five major reportable segments of its business:
domestic restaurants, domestic commissaries, domestic franchises,
international operations, and variable interest entities. Domestic
restaurants were restaurants that were wholly owned by Papa John’s
in the contiguous 48 states. Domestic franchises were restaurants in
which Papa John’s had licensed to franchisees for a franchise fee.
These franchisee restaurants, as well as company-owned
restaurants, were supported by domestic commissaries that supplied
pizza dough, food products, paper products, small wares, and
cleaning supplies twice weekly to each restaurant. There were 10
regional commissaries that supported domestic restaurants and
franchises.


An important part of Papa John’s strategy revolved around the
central commissary. It allowed Papa John’s to exercise control over
the quality and consistency of its products. 4


The commissary system was frequently cited by industry analysts
and company officials as a key factor in the success of Papa John’s.
The system not only reduced labor costs and reduced waste
because the dough was premeasured, but it maintained control over
the consistency of the product. The centralized production facility
supplied all of the Papa John’s stores with the same high-quality
ingredients for their pizza. One of the most important aspects of this
system is that it allowed Papa John’s to start up more stores
because it did not require the purchase of additional expensive
equipment for each store. Part of the company’s strategy was to
expand into new markets only after a commissary had been built that
could support the growth and geographical expansion of restaurants.
5



Papa John’s was rated number one in customer satisfaction among
all pizza chains in the American Customer Satisfaction Index for nine
consecutive years from 1999 to 2008. As Schnatter had remarked in
a 1997 interview, “We keep it simple, consistent, and focused. We
don’t keep changing what we are doing.” 6 Papa John’s president,
U.S.A., William Van Epps, echoed this emphasis.

Papa John’s core strategy was to sell a high-quality pizza for takeout
or delivery. Its focus on using the highest- quality ingredients to
produce a high-quality pizza was communicated in its motto; “Better
Ingredients. Better Pizza.” Schnatter considered it a sign of success
when Pizza Hut sued Papa John’s over the assertion that it had
better ingredients and, therefore, a better pizza. Papa John’s was
ultimately successful in proving it used fresher ingredients and was,
therefore, able to continue using its slogan. Papa John’s stated goal
was to build the strongest brand loyalty of all pizzerias
internationally. Early on, Schnatter also introduced a signature bonus
that served to signal the quality of the product: Each pizza was
accompanied by a container of the company’s special garlic sauce
and two pepperoncinis.
Technology, Menu
Enhancements, and Company
Growth
Papa John’s had long strived to be on the cutting edge of the use of
technology. The company made ordering pizza even more
convenient with the introduction of online ordering in 2001. It was the
first pizza company to offer online ordering. Papa John’s online sales
grew exponentially in the first decade of the 21st century with growth
rates of more than 50 percent a year not unusual. In November
2007, Papa John’s led the way, once again, by offering text message
ordering. 7 More than 20 percent of all Papa John’s sales came
online or via text. Papa John’s was also using both the internet and
mobile technologies to make potential customers aware of current
promotions and to allow them to easily order a pizza from virtually
anywhere.


In October 2006, Papa John’s introduced online ordering in Spanish
in an attempt to meet growing customer needs and expectations. In
2012, Papa John’s became the first pizza chain to offer online
ordering in Canada.

Papa John’s also extended its menu. In January 2006, Papa John’s
announced that it was adding dessert pizzas to its carryout and
delivery menus. “We created Papa’s Sweetreats in direct response
to consumer demand,” said Catherine Hull, Papa John’s vice
president of strategy and brand marketing. 8 In July 2008, Papa
John’s introduced another permanent addition to its menu:
Chocolate Pastry Delight.

Menu additions and new ways to order did not signal a change in
strategy, according to company executives. Nigel Travis, president
and CEO of Papa John’s, stated in the company annual report 2007,
“our stated strategy from a year ago remains unchanged. We will
continue to focus on quality, growing the brand globally, and
competing aggressively. It has proven the right course in a
challenging economic time and has the opportunity to be even more
successful as the economy rebounds.” Papa John’s targeted
restaurants in the international arena as the company’s primary
source of long-term growth. Papa John’s saw its use of innovative
marketing, product offerings, and industry-leading technology as a
major advantage over its competitors. 9


Papa John’s outlined its company strategy in one annual report as
follows; “Our goal is to build the strongest brand loyalty of all
pizzerias internationally.”


Papa John’s strategy for accomplishing this goal centered on five
key activities. The first was a commitment to using high quality
ingredients in its menu items. The second was operational efficiency
from using commissaries and centralizing procurement. A
commitment to training and development of its employees and
franchise members was the third key activity. Marketing constituted
the fourth key to Papa John’s strategy. Papa John’s marketed
nationally through television, print, direct mail, and digital activities.
The company also emphasized community-oriented marketing at the
restaurant level. Such activities were often directed at schools and
sports activities. Building a strong franchise system was the final key
element of Papa John’s strategy. The company sought to attract
franchisees with either restaurant or retail experience and then
sought to develop franchisees through a variety of training and
development activities.
Cost Management and
Operational Support Systems
Papa John’s subleased retail locations to franchise owners. Papa
John’s had lowered the number of corporate-owned stores by about
5 percent in recent years in an effort to lower its lease payments.
Leasing building space gave Papa John’s the flexibility to move
locations quickly with minimal cost, should a profitable location turn
bad.


Papa John’s also leased the trailers used to distribute ingredients
from the commissary centers to the retail locations, typically on an
eight-year lease agreement. By leasing the trailers, Papa John’s was
able to manage its shipping logistics and costs in a structured
manner while not being required to maintain the trailers as they
aged.


As Papa John’s started to grow, Schnatter recognized the
importance of sharing his passion for pizza with others in his
company. The Operation Support Service and Training (OSST)
Center was created and was actively engaged in the training and
development of “team” members. In order to instill his passion into
his new franchisees and corporate employees, Schnatter had them
complete a management training program at the OSST Center when
they started with the company. The aim of this training was to help
franchise owners be successful and to instill in them a firm
understanding of the Papa John’s culture. Making franchisees feel
like they were in a partnership with Papa John’s facilitated a level of
buy-in that the company believed was seldom found in restaurant
chains.


Throughout Papa John’s tremendous growth during its first 10 years
of operation, its marketing programs targeted the delivery area of
each restaurant, primarily through direct mailings and direct store-to-
door couponing.


From its beginning, Papa John’s had been active in community
affairs, from supporting local sports teams with fundraising
opportunities to offering college scholarships. Papa John’s had
awarded more than $5 million in college scholarships. Papa John’s
actively supported the National FFA, Cerebral Palsy K.I.D.S. Center,
and Children’s Miracle Network, to name only a few. Papa John’s
executives believed that giving back to the community was good
business.


Papa John’s had entered into numerous marketing partnerships over
the years. For example, Papa John’s aligned with Coca-Cola to offer
only Coke products in its stores. When Papa John’s added a pan
pizza to its menu, it enlisted the aid of former Miami Dolphins
quarterback Dan Marino. At the time, this was the most intensive
new product launch ever undertaken by Papa John’s. Another
combined effort for Papa John’s involved coordinating with eBay for
a limited edition Superman pan pizza box. In Kentucky, Papa John’s
and Blockbuster video combined efforts in a “take dinner and a
movie online” in which the customer would receive a free 30-day trial
of Blockbuster Online with an online pizza purchase at
papajohns.com.

By using a combination of internal and external resources, Papa
John’s was determined to not compete with its competition on price.
Focusing on a quality product, active participation in the local
communities in which it operated, and product branding enabled
Papa John’s to hold its own with the other pizza chains. Papa John’s
had worked to create a product branded in such a way that
customers came to expect the very best pizza; and they were willing
to pay a premium price. Papa John’s was committed to holding firm
on the quality and prices of its pizzas.
The Restaurant Industry and ‐
Pizza Segment
The restaurant industry had historically been very attractive to
entrepreneurs. Most of these new entrants opened single locations.
The relatively low capital requirements made the restaurant business
very attractive to small-scale entrepreneurs. Some of these
businesses succeeded, but there was an intense amount of
competition. There were relatively high fixed costs associated with
entering into the restaurant business. These factors caused many of
the new businesses to fail. However, for the businesses that
succeeded, the payback on the investment could be quite high. After
sales reached the break-even point, a relatively high percentage of
incremental revenues became profit.


Restaurant analysts were generally amazed at how successfully
Schnatter built Papa John’s. Michael Fineman, a restaurant analyst
with Raymond James in St. Petersburg, Florida, stated, “Here’s an
industry that appears to be mature and saturated, and here comes
John Schnatter with his company Papa John’s. He has proven to be
a fantastic visionary.” 10


Large restaurant chains, like Papa John’s, were able to realize
economies of scale that made competition extremely difficult for
small operators. Some of these advantages included purchasing
power in negotiating food and packaging supply contracts, as well as
real estate purchasing, location selection, menu development, and
marketing.

Papa John’s operated in the highly competitive pizza restaurant
market, where the cost of entry was relatively low and product
differentiation was difficult. Other pizza chains tried to compete in
ways other than Papa John’s emphasis. Some chains focused on
being less expensive or having a broad menu. The meal options
available for consumers were increasing both for convenience dining
and at-home consumption. The quality of frozen pizza available at
grocery stores had improved significantly in recent years. A broader
trend was that restaurant and quick-service restaurant dinner
occasions were declining, which was significant for pizza restaurants
such as Papa John’s, which gained 70 percent of its sales from
dinner orders. Declining restaurant and quick-service restaurant
dining was attributed to an increase in at-home dinner preparation,
linked to a decline in the percentage of women in the workforce. 11


The large number of restaurant types throughout North America
made it unlikely that any firm would gain a competitive advantage by
offering one style or type of cuisine. The one principle that made
Papa John’s rare in the restaurant industry was its ongoing passion
to offer the perfect pizza. Many companies claimed to place quality
at the forefront of their business, but often the commitment to quality
went no deeper than public relations and was not a core value.
Papa John’s commitment to the highest-quality ingredients created
challenges in managing the supply of the foods that went into its
pizza. The volatility in the price of cheese had been a major problem
for Papa John’s. Cheese material costs contribute approximately 35
to 40 percent of Papa John’s restaurants’ food costs. In order to
reduce the cheese price volatility, Papa John’s partnered with a third-
party entity formed by franchisees, BIBP Commodities, Inc., whose
sole purpose was to reduce cheese price volatility to domestic
system-wide restaurants. This allowed Papa John’s to purchase
cheese from BIBP at a fixed quarterly price. Profits and losses from
BIBP were then passed on to Papa John’s. 12


Rising costs challenged pizza restaurants in multiple areas. Labor
costs, as well as food commodity costs, were rising in the industry.
“Although restaurants are experiencing cost increases for labor,
utilities, and transportation, perhaps no other factor has prompted
restaurants to increase their prices in 2008 more than food
commodity cost inflation” (S&P Industry Surveys [2008]). Rising
energy costs had a dual impact on Papa John’s and its competitors.
Food prices of products related to corn were increasing even more
rapidly because of corn’s use as an alternative fuel. Fluctuating in-
store utility costs and delivery driver fuel costs were an ongoing
source of concern. In 2007-08, such costs had risen dramatically.
Another potential threat of rising costs stemmed from legislation at
the federal level as well as many states that mandated a higher
minimum wage.
Many companies, including Papa John’s, engaged in forward pricing
to stabilize food costs. “Forward pricing is a hedging strategy
whereby a company negotiates with a supplier to purchase a certain
amount of a product at a given price. Some supply contracts, signed
by larger chains, can lock in less volatile food products for an entire
year. Some of the products subject to the greatest variability,
especially dairy products, can be locked in only for shorter periods.”
13



Of the $200-plus-billion restaurant market, the pizza segment
currently held 6.7 percent of the market. Pizza Hut, a division of
Yum! Brands, Inc., was the leader, followed by Domino’s Pizza, Inc.,
Papa John’s International, Inc., and Little Caesars (a division of Ilitch
Holdings, Inc.). Each was a large, nationally known pizza provider.
These four accounted for 88 percent of the aggregate sales in the
pizza chain restaurant segment; each was significantly larger than
the #5 chain Chuck E. Cheese’s (operated by CEC Entertainment,
Inc.).
Papa John’s Looking Forward
Schnatter was optimistic about the future of Papa John’s. He wanted
to see Papa John’s get back on the path of opening 200 to 300
stores per year. Over the following five years, he wanted to see Papa
John’s reach the 4,000-store mark and, long term, he aspired to see
6,000 to 7,000 stores worldwide. 14 Papa John’s also sought to
reduce the number of company-run stores by turning them into
franchising opportunities. At the end of 2012, Papa John’s operated
3,204 stores in North America and another 959 internationally. Papa
John’s owned 20 percent of the North American stores but only 5
percent of the international stores, which were all in China.
Franchising more of its current company-run stores offered Papa
John’s some important benefits. Franchise royalties were based on a
percentage of sales and not on a percentage of profits, which
allowed Papa John’s to ensure a steady stream of revenue even in a
difficult operating environment.

Papa John’s had several options at its disposal. Among them were
international market expansion, increased domestic market
penetration, and related diversification (primarily via strategic
acquisitions). The case for international expansion was based on the
conclusion that the U.S. pizza industry (and quick-serve restaurant
industry in general) had matured and that the most significant growth
opportunities were beyond U.S. borders. Pizza Hut benefited from a
first-mover advantage in several, if not most, attractive international
markets. With over 1,000 stores, Pizza Hut operated more stores in
China than Papa John’s throughout the world. It operated more than
5,200 stores, more than five times the number of Papa John’s.
Historically, Papa John’s international efforts centered in Mexico,
Canada, the United Kingdom, the Middle East, and Asia. Some
believed that Asian markets would generally favor quality-centered
business models due to higher preferences for quality. Another
favorable trend in these markets was a growing income base for the
local population.

In building its international infrastructure, the company would need to
cultivate new relationships and develop new skills. One critical
element was the company’s ability to continue to partner with local
producers in order to maintain tight quality control and keep
ingredients fresh. In terms of new skills, Papa John’s needed to
develop the ability to modify its standard smaller carry-out restaurant
blueprint. Looking at the success of firms such as McDonald’s or
Yum! Brands, Inc.’s Kentucky Fried Chicken, there was persuasive
evidence that international customers tended to view their eating-out
experience as more of a formal dining event. Thus, the standard
Papa John’s takeout restaurant model might need to be expanded to
accommodate a sit-down dining area for patrons.

In addition to expanding internationally, Papa John’s sought to grow
and maintain its domestic market share. Traditionally, restaurants did
this by adding new menu items or introducing a value selection such
as McDonald’s dollar menu or Little Caesars’ Hot-N-Ready $5 pizza
offering. For Papa John’s, these strategies presented the risk of
overextending its menu and, consequently, reducing its overall brand
quality or ability to charge premium prices.

Extending the company’s co-branding efforts was another possible
avenue for domestic growth. For example, Papa John’s partnered
with firms such as Nestlé to provide some of its dessert menu
offerings. There were a vast number of co-branding opportunities
that were, in theory at least, possible.


A third alternative for Papa John’s involved diversifying from pizza.
For example, Papa John’s could develop or acquire an additional
restaurant chain under a different brand. Such an approach would
allow Papa John’s to compete in another restaurant category without
fear of diluting its quality brand. Other competitors in the industry had
operated chains in multiple categories. McDonald’s, for example,
had invested in Chipotle Mexican Grill and Boston Market before
disposing of its investments in 2006 and 2007, respectively. Yum!
Brands, Inc., operated Pizza Hut, Taco Bell, Kentucky Fried Chicken,
and A&W. With the growing influence of the Hispanic population and
culture in the United States, some believed that a Hispanic/Mexican-
themed restaurant would allow the company to benefit from this
trend without impairing the Papa John’s franchise.
End Notes
1    Interview with John Schnatter, October 2008.
2    (2008) Hoover’s Profiles. Papa John’s International, Inc.
3    UBS London investor meeting on August 22, 2008.
4    Interview with John Schnatter, October 2008.
5    Hoover’s Profiles. Papa John’s International, Inc.
6    Walkup, C. (1997). “John Schnatter.” Food Industry, January.
7    (2007). Pizza Today, November 19.
8    (2006). Pizza Today, January 17.
9    Papa John’s International, Inc., annual report 2007.
10    Walkup, C. (1997). “John Schnatter.” Food Industry, January.
11    UBS London investor meeting on August 22, 2008.
12    Ibid.
13    Standard & Poor’s Industry Surveys, September 4, 2008.
14    Interview with John Schnatter, October 2008.
Case 2–4: Ryanair—The Low
Fares Airline*

* This case was written by Eleanor O’Higgins, University College Dublin. It is intended to be
used as a basis for class discussion rather than to illustrate effective or ineffective handling
of a management situation.
© Eleanor O’Higgins, 2011. All rights reserved.
“There is only one thing in the world worse than
being talked about, and that is not being talked
about,” declared Lord Charles in Oscar Wilde’s
novel, The Picture of Dorian Gray. This could
have been the mantra of budget airline Ryanair,
Europe’s largest carrier by passenger numbers
and market capitalization in 2010. The airline
was given to making controversial news,
whether it was annoying the Queen of Spain by
using her picture without permission in
marketing material or announcing plans to
charge passengers to use toilets on its flights or
engaging in high-profile battles with the
European Commission. Ryanair also made
news with its achievements, such as winning
international awards, like Best Managed Airline,
or receiving a 2009 FT-ArcelorMittal Boldness in
Business Award in the Drivers of Change
category. This award announcement said that
Ryanair had, “changed the airline business
outside North America—driving the way the
industry operates through its pricing, the
destinations it flies to and the passenger
numbers it carries.”1 Ryanair had been the
budget airline pioneer in Europe, rigorously
following a low-cost strategy. It had enjoyed
remarkable growth and in the five years to 2009,
was the most profitable airline in the world,
according to Air Transport magazine.

Despite this apparent success, Ryanair faced
issues. The most pressing, shared by all
airlines, was an industry that was “structurally
sick” and “in intensive care,”2 with plunging
demand in the global economic recession and
uncertainty about oil prices. What strategy
should Ryanair use to weather this storm?
Would the crisis produce a long-term change in
industry structure? Could Ryanair take
advantage of the situation as it had in the past,
by growing when others were cutting back? A
predicament of its own making was Ryanair’s
29.8 percent shareholding in Aer Lingus, the
Irish national carrier, following an abortive
takeover attempt. Aer Lingus’s flagging share
price had necessitated drastic write-downs,
which had dragged Ryanair’s results into losses
in 2009, the first since its flotation 12 years
earlier.3 4
Overview of Ryanair
In 2010, Ryanair had 44 bases and 1,200-plus routes across 27
countries, connecting 160 destinations. It operated a fleet of 256 new
Boeing 737-800 aircraft with firm orders for a further 64 aircraft to be
delivered over the following two years. It employed 8,100-plus
people and had carried almost 67 million passengers in 2010,
expecting to carry approximately 73.5 million passengers for fiscal
2011.

Ryanair was founded in 1985 by the Tony Ryan family to provide
scheduled passenger services between Ireland and the United
Kingdom, as an alternative to then-state monopoly airline Aer
Lingus. Initially, Ryanair was a full-service conventional airline, with
two classes of seating, leasing three different types of aircraft.
Despite growth in passenger volumes, by the end of 1990, the
company had flown through much turbulence, disposing of five chief
executives and accumulating losses of £20 million. Its fight to survive
in the early 1990s saw the airline transform itself to become
Europe’s first low-fare, no-frills carrier, built on the model of
Southwest Airlines, the successful Texas-based operator. A new
management team, led by Michael O’Leary, then a reluctant recruit,
was appointed. Ryanair, floated on the Dublin Stock Exchange in
1997, is quoted on the Dublin and London Stock exchanges and on
NASDAQ, where it was admitted to the NASDAQ-100 in 2002.
Mixed Fortunes
Mixed Results
Ryanair designated itself as the “World’s Favourite Airline” on the
basis that, in 2010, IATA ranked it as the world’s largest international
airline by passenger numbers—despite the fact that it had already
been calling itself the world’s favorite airline for a number of years. It
was now the eighth-largest airline in the world (when the large U.S.
carriers’ domestic traffic is included). Over the following five years,
Ryanair intended to grow to become the second-largest airline in the
world, ranked only behind its mentor Southwest.

Releasing Ryanair’s 2010 results in June 2010, O’Leary announced,
“We can be proud of delivering a 200 percent increase in profits and
traffic growth during a global recession when many of our
competitors have announced losses or cutbacks, while more have
gone bankrupt.” Revenues had risen two percent to €2,988 million,
as fares fell 13 percent to €34.95. Unit costs fell 19 percent due to
lower fuel costs and rigorous cost control. Fuel costs declined 29
percent as oil prices fell from $104 to $62 per barrel. Fuel hedging
was extended to 90 percent for full year 2011, 50 percent for quarter
1, and 20 percent of quarter 2 of 2012. Airport and handling costs
declined by nine percent, despite price increases at Dublin and
Stansted, two of Ryanair’s busiest bases. Ancillary sales grew 11
percent to €664 million, slightly lower than traffic growth and
constituting 22 percent of total revenues. The balance sheet had
strengthened with a cash rise of €535 million to €2.8 billion.
According to the airline, currency hedging had locked in the cost of
aircraft purchases in 2010-2011.


The full-year 2010 improvement in profit had followed a particularly
miserable 2009, when Ryanair plunged to a €180 million loss, as its
€144 million operating profit was eradicated by a €222 million write-
down of its Aer Lingus shares and an accelerated €51.6 million
depreciation charge. Excluding these exceptional charges,
underlying profits fell 78 percent from €480.9 million to €105 million.
This was due largely to a surge in fuel prices in the first half of fiscal
2009, as Ryanair failed to hedge when oil prices rose to $147 a
barrel in July 2008. Then, bowing to shareholder pressure to cover
against rocketing prices, it locked in fuel costs at $124 a barrel for 80
percent of its consumption during the third quarter—just as oil prices
crashed to a low of $33 a barrel during that period. Passenger
numbers rose 15 percent from 50.9 million to 58.5 million. Average
fares fell eight percent to €40. (Ryanair’s financial data are given in
Exhibits 1a and 1b , and operating data are given in Exhibit
1c .)


Exhibit 1a Ryanair Consolidated Income Statement
Source: Ryanair Annual Report 2010.
Exhibit 1b Ryanair Consolidated Balance Sheet
Source: Ryanair Annual Report 2010.
Exhibit 1c Ryanair Selected Operating Data
Source: Ryanair Annual Report 2010
Ancillary Revenues
Ryanair provides various ancillary services connected with its airline
service, including in-flight beverage, food, and merchandise sales,
and Internet-related services. Ryanair also distributes
accommodation, travel insurance, and car rentals through its Web
site. Providing these services through the Internet enables Ryanair
to increase sales while reducing unit costs. In 2010, Ryanair’s Web
site ranked 12th by number of visits for retailers in the United
Kingdom (behind EasyJet, which ranked 10th). Ancillary services
accounted for 22 percent of Ryanair’s total operating revenues,
compared with 20.3 percent in 2009. However, it might be that
ancillary revenue generation could have its limits, as they had, in
fact, dropped from €10.20 in 2009 to €9.98 per passenger in 2010.

Ancillary revenue initiatives were constantly being introduced by
Ryanair, such as onboard and online gambling and a trial in-flight
mobile phone service in 2009. A poll of Financial Times’ readers had
produced a 72 percent negative response to the question, “Should
mobile phones be allowed on aircraft?” Among the comments was,
“Just another reason not to fly Ryanair.”5 However, O’Leary
declared, “If you want a quiet flight, use another airline. Ryanair is
noisy, full, and we are always trying to sell you something.”6 In March
2010, despite a promising trial on 50 aircraft, Ryanair announced the
suspension of its onboard telephone service due to a failure to reach
an agreement with the Swiss provider, OnAir, on a plan to roll out the
service to Ryanair’s entire fleet.
Ryanair was the first airline to introduce charges for check-in
luggage. Virtually all budget airlines have followed suit, as they have
with other Ryanair initiatives. It has continued to find ways of
charging passengers for services once considered intrinsic to an
airline ticket. Passengers were charged extra for checking in at the
airport rather than online (which also incurs a charge), although
those with hold luggage did not have the option of checking in online.
While avoiding pre-assigned seats, an extra charge procures “priority
boarding.” Interestingly, Aer Lingus took up a similar idea by
enabling passengers to book seats online for a charge of €5.


Some of Ryanair’s revenue-generating ideas have provoked
controversy—and publicity. One of the most talked about was its
intention to charge passengers a £1 charge to use the lavatory by
installing a coin slot on its aircraft. While it has not implemented this
concept, (it may contravene security rules), the idea generated much
publicity. Another idea mooted by Ryanair was a “fat tax” for
overweight passengers. (In fact, several U.S. airlines already require
obese passengers who spill over into neighboring seats to buy a
second seat.) In an online poll of more than 30,000 respondents, the
fat tax idea was approved by one in three. However, the airline later
announced that it would not implement the surcharge because it
could not collect it without disrupting its 25-minute turnarounds and
online check-in process. The same online poll, supposedly to
generate ideas for additional revenue, also gained 25 percent
approval for a €1 levy to use onboard toilet paper with O’Leary’s face
on it.
Ryanair’s Operations
O’Leary said, “Any fool can sell low airfares and lose money. The
difficult bit is to sell the lowest airfares and make profits. If you don’t
make profits, you can’t lower your airfares or reward your people or
invest in new aircraft or take on the really big airlines like BA (British
Airways) and Lufthansa.”7 Certainly, Ryanair had stuck closely to the
low-cost/low-fares model. Ever-decreasing costs was its theme, as it
constantly adapted its model to the European arena and changing
conditions. In this respect, Ryanair differed in its application of the
Southwest Airlines budget airline prototype and its main European
rival, EasyJet, as they were not as frill-cutting. One observer
described the difference between EasyJet and Ryanair; “EasyJet,
you understand is classy cheap, rather than just plain cheap.”8
The Ryanair Fleet
Ryanair continued its fleet commonality policy, using Boeing 737
planes, to maintain staff training and aircraft maintenance costs as
low as possible. Over the years, it purchased new, more
environmentally friendly aircraft, reducing the average age of its
aircraft to 3.3 years, among the youngest fleets in Europe. The
newer aircraft produced 50 percent less emissions, 45 percent less
fuel burn, and 45 percent lower noise emissions per seat. Winglet
modification provided better performance and a 2 percent reduction
in fleet fuel consumption, a saving the company believed could be
improved. Despite larger seat capacity, new aircraft did not require
more crew. In 2009, in aircraft buying mode, Ryanair sought to
repeat its 2002 coup when it placed aircraft orders at the bottom of
the market. However, in late 2009, talks with Boeing for the purchase
of 200 aircraft between 2013 and 2015 broke down. Notwithstanding
strict adherence to Boeing 737 planes, in an attempt to extract ever
greater discounts from Boeing, Ryanair invited Airbus, the European
aircraft manufacturer, to enter into preliminary bidding for a multi-
million-dollar order for 200-plus short-haul aircraft. However, Airbus
rebuffed the Ryanair invitation, declaring this sales campaign would
be too expensive and time consuming. Yet Ryanair hinted that it had
an interest in Airbus’s new generation of fuel-efficient aircraft and,
moreover, that it had the economies of scale to run a mixed fleet
between Boeing and Airbus models.
Staff Costs and Productivity
Ryanair refuses to recognize trade unions and negotiates with
Employee Representative Committees (ERCs). Its 2010 employee
count of 7,032 people, composed of more than 25 different
nationalities, had doubled over the previous three years. This was
accounted for almost entirely by flight and cabin crew to service
expansion. Ryanair’s employees earned productivity-based incentive
payments, consisting of 39 percent and 37 percent of total pay for
cabin crew and pilots respectively. By tailoring rosters, the carrier
maximized productivity and time off for crew members, complying
with EU regulations that impose a ceiling on pilot flying hours to
prevent dangerous fatigue. Its passenger-per-employee ratio of
9,457 was the highest in the industry. After a series of pay increases
for cabin staff and pilots, in late 2009, staff agreed to a one-year pay
freeze.
Passenger Service Costs
Ryanair pioneered cost-cutting/yield-enhancing measures for
passenger check-in and luggage handling. One was priority boarding
and Web-based check-in. More than half of its passengers availed of
this, thus saving on check-in staff, airport facilities, and time.
Charging for check-in bags encouraged passengers to travel with
fewer and, if possible, zero check-in luggage, thus saving on costs
and enhancing speed. Before Ryanair began to charge for checked-
in bags, 80 percent of passengers were traveling with checked-in
luggage; two years later this had fallen to 30 percent of passengers.
From October 2009, it adopted a 100 percent Web check-in policy,
enabling a reduction in staff numbers, calculated to save €50 million
per year. Ryanair claims that, “passengers love Web check-in. Never
again will they have to arrive early at an airport to waste time in a
useless check-in queue. As more passengers travel with carry-on
luggage only, they are delighted to discover that they will never again
waste valuable time at arrival baggage carousels either. These
measures allow Ryanair to save our passengers valuable time, as
well as lots of money.”9 A natural next step announced by Ryanair
was a move to 100 percent carry-on luggage. Additional bags would
be brought by passengers to the boarding gate, where they would be
placed in the hold and returned as passengers deplane on arrival.
These efficiencies would allow more efficient airport terminals to be
developed without expensive check-in desks, baggage halls, or
computerized baggage systems, “and enable Ryanair to make flying
even cheaper, easier, and much more fun again,” claimed the
company.10 The feasibility of the proposals to require passengers to
carry hold baggage through security to the aircraft was yet to be
tested.
Airport Charges and Route Policy
Consistent with the budget airline model, Ryanair’s routes were
point-to-point only. This reduced airport charges by avoiding
congested main airports, choosing secondary and regional
destinations, eager to increase passenger throughput. Usually these
airports were significantly further from the city centers they served
than the main airports, “from nowhere to nowhere” in the words of Sir
Stelios Haji-Ioannou, founder of EasyJet, Ryanair’s biggest
competitor.11 Ryanair uses Frankfurt Hahn, 123 kilometers from
Frankfurt; Torp, 100 kilometers from Oslo; and Charleroi, 60
kilometers from Brussels. In December 2003, the Advertising
Standards Authority rebuked Ryanair and upheld a misleading
advertising complaint against it for attaching “Lyon” to its
advertisements for flights to St. Etienne. A passenger had turned up
at Lyon Airport, only to discover that her flight was leaving from St.
Etienne, 75 kilometers away.

Ryanair continued to protest at charges and conditions at some
airports, especially Stansted and Dublin, two of its main hubs. The
airline was, “deeply concerned by continued understaffing of security
at Stansted which led to repeated passenger and flight delays . . .
management of Stansted security is inept, and BAA has again
proven that it is incapable of providing adequate or appropriate
security services at Stansted. This shambles again highlights that
BAA is an inefficient, incompetent airport monopoly.”12 When BAA
appealed its break-up, ordered by the UK Competition Commission
in 2009, Ryanair secured the right to intervene in the appeal in
support of the Commission and later applauded the loss of the
appeal by BAA. Meanwhile, Ryanair bemoaned a €10 tourist tax
being levied in Ireland, along with a 40 percent price increase at
Dublin Airport, largely to pay for a second terminal costing €1.2
billion, initially commissioned in the heyday of the Irish Celtic Tiger
and derided by Ryanair as a white elephant. Ryanair acted against
Dublin and various UK airports by cutting its capacity and shifting its
aircraft to countries, such as Spain, with cheaper airports and lower
or nonexistent passenger taxes.



Marketing Strategy
Following the introduction of its Internet-based reservations and
ticketing service, enabling passengers to make reservations and
purchase tickets directly through the Web site, Ryanair’s reliance on
travel agents had been eliminated. It had promoted its Web site
heavily through newspaper, radio, and television advertising. As a
result, Internet bookings accounted for 99 percent of all reservations.


Ryanair minimized its marketing and advertising costs, relying on
free publicity, by its own admission, “through controversial and
topical advertising, press conferences and publicity stunts.” Other
marketing activities include distribution of advertising and
promotional material and cooperative advertising campaigns with
other travel-related entities and local tourist boards.
So, What About Aer Lingus?
According to a commentator in the Financial Times, “Ryanair’s bid
for Aer Lingus was a folie de grandeur.”13 Even O’Leary admitted it
was, “a stupid investment. At the time, it was the right strategy to go
for one combined airline but it has now proven to be a disaster.”14
During 2007, in a shock bid, Ryanair had acquired a 25.2 percent
stake in Aer Lingus, only a week after the flotation of the national
carrier. It subsequently increased its interest to 29.8 percent, at a
total aggregate cost of €407.2 million. By July 2009, the investment
had been written down to €79.7 million. At the time of the initial bid,
Ryanair declared its intention to retain the Aer Lingus brand and,
“upgrade their dated long-haul product, and reduce their short-haul
fares by 2.5 percent per year for a minimum of 4 years . . . one
strong Irish airline group will be rewarding for consumers and will
enable both to vigorously compete with the mega carriers in Europe .
. . there are significant opportunities, by combining the purchasing
power of Ryanair and Aer Lingus, to substantially reduce its
operating costs, increase efficiencies, and pass these savings on in
the form of lower fares to Aer Lingus’ consumers.”15


Aer Lingus’ fortunes continued to deteriorate, with the company
announcing losses for 2008 and projecting even worse for 2009. In
July of that year, its shares were trading at less than €0.50. In April,
its CEO, Dermot Mannion, resigned after controversy over a
potential secret payoff deal in the event of a hostile takeover. While
Ryanair did not have a seat on the board, it continued to denigrate
Aer Lingus, forecasting, “a bleak future as a loss making, subscale,
regional airline, which has a high cost base and declining traffic
numbers.”16 Meanwhile, the two airlines continued to compete
vigorously, especially within the Irish market.


In July 2010, the European General Court upheld the European
Commission’s decision, as well as a verdict in a case brought by Aer
Lingus, to block the takeover of Aer Lingus by Ryanair. However, it
did not go as far as forcing Ryanair to sell its stake in Aer Lingus, an
action that Aer Lingus wanted the Court to impose. Upon hearing the
Court decision, O’Leary declared that he had not ruled out making a
third bid for Aer Lingus at some future date.
Risks and Challenges
Apart from its foray into Aer Lingus, Ryanair faced various
challenges in 2009, some specific to itself and some general to the
aviation industry.




Sharp Economic Downturn
The global recession commencing in 2008 created unfavorable
economic conditions such as high unemployment rates and
constrained credit markets, with reduced spending by leisure and
business passengers alike. This constrained Ryanair’s scope to
raise fares, putting downward pressure on yields. Continued
recession could restrict the company’s passenger volume growth.
Input Costs

Fuel
Perhaps the greatest concern in input costs is fuel. Jet fuel prices
are subject to wide fluctuations, increases in demand, and
disruptions in supply, factors that Ryanair can neither predict nor
control. In such unpredictable circumstances, even hedging is only
palliative. The situation is compounded by exchange rate
uncertainties, although declines of the U.S. dollar against the euro
and sterling worked in Ryanair’s favor, as fuel prices are
denominated in dollars. Ryanair’s declaration of “no fuel surcharges
ever” and its reliance on low fares limit its capacity to pass on
increased fuel costs.


Airport Charges and Government Taxes
Ryanair is especially sensitive to airports that raise charges, like
Stansted and Dublin. Indirectly, it is also vulnerable to extra taxes
and charges, such as a €10 tourist tax imposed by the Irish
government.
Growth and Reducing Yields
Growth plans by Ryanair entailed investment in new aircraft and
routes. If growth in passenger traffic did not keep pace with its
planned fleet expansion, overcapacity could result. Related
pressures were additional marketing costs and reduced yields from
lower fares to promote added routes, especially to airports new to
the Ryanair system. In its drive for growth, Ryanair was likely to
encounter increased competition, putting even more downward
pressure on yields, as airlines struggled to fill vacant seats to cover
fixed costs.
Industrial Relations
In light of the recession and financial losses, Ryanair negotiated with
all employee groups and secured a pay freeze for fiscal 2009 and
2010. It also planned to make 250 people redundant at Dublin
Airport.


Ryanair came under fire for refusing to recognize unions and
allegedly providing poor working conditions (for example, staff are
banned from charging their own mobile phones at work to reduce the
company’s electricity bill). It conducted collective bargaining with
employees on pay, work practices, and conditions of employment
through internal elected Employee Representation Committees.
However, the British Airline Pilots Association (BALPA) was
constantly attempting to organize Ryanair pilots in the United
Kingdom and legal action was pending in this regard in 2011.


In July 2006, the Irish High Court ruled that Ryanair had bullied pilots
to accept new contracts, where pilots would have to pay €15,000 for
retraining on new aircraft if they left the airline or if the company
were forced to negotiate with unions during the following five years.
Some Ryanair managers were judged to have given false evidence
in court. Meanwhile, Ryanair was contesting the claims of some
pilots for victimization under the new contracts. By 2009, only 11 of
the 64 pilots who had lodged the claim remained with the company
and still had claims.
Ryanair was ordered to pay “well in excess” of €1 million in legal
costs after a court refused the airline access to the names and
addresses of pilots who posted critical comments about the
company, on a site hosted by the British and Irish pilots’ unions.
O’Leary claimed anonymous pilots were using a Web site to
intimidate and harass foreign-based pilots to dissuade them from
working for the company. The pilots involved used code names such
as “ihateryanair” and “cant-fly-wontfly.” Nonetheless, in effect,
Ryanair appeared to have no problems recruiting cabin staff,
including pilots, to meet its needs.



Environmental Concerns
Aviation fuel had been exempt from carbon taxes, but the EU had
established an Emissions Trading Scheme to encompass the
aviation industry commencing in 2012. Ryanair was predicted to be
the fourth-most adversely affected airline in the world with a shortfall
of 2.8 tonnes in allowances, equivalent to €40 million in extra costs.
This is despite its young fleet of fuel-efficient, minimal pollution
aircraft. Therefore, Ryanair has contended that any environmental
taxation scheme should be to the benefit of more efficient carriers,
so airlines with low load factors that generate high fuel consumption
and emissions per passenger and those offering connecting rather
than point-to-point flights should be penalized.
Customer Services and
Perceptions
In 2003, Ryanair published a Passenger Charter, which includes
doctrines on low fares, redress, and punctuality. Its annual report
offers figures to show its superiority over competitors with respect to
punctuality, completed flights, and fewest bags lost per thousand
passengers.


However, its Skytrax two-star rating is among the worst for budget
airlines. In Europe, only bmibaby and Wizzair achieve as low a
rating. There have been suggestions that Ryanair’s, “obsessive
focus on the bottom line may have dented its public image. In an
infamous incident, it charged a disabled man £18 (€25) to use a
wheelchair.”17 In response to protests over the charge, Ryanair
imposed a 50-cent wheelchair levy on every passenger ticket.
Campaigners for the disabled accused Ryanair of profiteering,
declaring that the levy should be no more than 3 cents. It was the
only major airline in Europe to impose such wheelchair charges.


There was growing attention to extra charges continually being
imposed by Ryanair on passengers, many on unavoidable services
such as check-in. In some instances, these extra charges made
Ryanair more expensive than BA.18 Examples were a family of four
traveling to Ibiza from London with three bags for a two-week holiday
costing £1157 with Ryanair versus £913 with BA and £634 with
EasyJet. A single passenger traveling to Venice from London for a
week at Christmas with one bag would pay a total £139 on Ryanair
compared to £89 on BA and £121 on EasyJet.

Ryanair features on many consumer complaint interactive Web sites
and some blogs have been established specifically to disparage the
airline. In a blog titled “20 reasons never to fly Ryanair,” extra
charges for booking fees, baggage overweight and low weight limits,
premium rate helplines, and the fact that “you are always being
flogged stuff” were enumerated.19 Claiming that the service is
provided by a third party, Ryanair even charges passengers a €10
service fee to collect lost property. When the Irish Times put Ryanair
customers’ gripes on the Pricewatch blog to its head of
communications, Stephen McNamara, his response was to dismiss
them as “subjective and inaccurate rubbish” and even implied
Pricewatch had made them up to further some class of anti-Ryanair
agenda.20 Among the complaints were, “Customers want to be
treated like a human being, to get to their desired destination (not
50/60 miles away) . . . to be allowed to bring luggage without
persecution . . . a complete and utter lack of communication when
flights run late . . . I’m sick of that miserable booking charge/service
charge/admin charge system.”


So, why are so many people willing to put up with an airline that, in
the words of The Economist, “has become a byword for appalling
customer service, misleading advertising claims and jeering
rudeness?”21 Ryanair has responded to such comments, declaring
that, in effect, customers vote with their feet by choosing Ryanair for
its four tenets of customer service: low fares, a good on-time record,
few cancellations, and few lost bags. “If you want anything more—go
away,” admonishes O’Leary.22 The Financial Times aerospace
correspondent observed that Ryanair still offered relative value
compared with rail alternatives, at least on a journey from London to
Scotland, even when Ryanair extras are factored in.



Other Risks and Challenges
As listed in its own report, Ryanair faced other risks, some particular
to itself and some generic to the industry:


   Risks associated with growth in uncertain highly competitive
   markets, such as downward pressure on fares and margins;
   Prices and availability of new aircraft;
   Potential impairments from Ryanair’s 29.8 percent stake in Aer
   Lingus;
   Threats of terrorist attacks;
   Potential outbreak of airborne diseases, such as swine flu;
   Dependence on key personnel (especially O’Leary);
   Dependence on external service providers;
   Dependence on its Web site; and
   The continued acceptance of budget carriers with respect to
   safety. Tied in with the latter are potential rises in insurance
   costs.
Ryanair’s Competitive Space
Globally, airlines were hit hard during the economic downturn with a
$9.9 billion loss in 2009 and $16 billion in 2008, but in 2010 it was
believed that the cyclical movement of the airline industry had begun
to improve as the International Air Transport Association (IATA) had
actually predicted a $2.5 billion airline industry profit forecast for
2010. However, European carriers were still expected to generate
losses of $2.8 billion, aggravated by the disruption from the volcanic
ash in April and May. In 2009, of the mainstream European carriers,
only Lufthansa made a net profit. BA, Air France-KLM, and
Scandinavian Air Systems (SAS) all made severe losses, due to
declining traffic from long-haul business-class passengers. The woes
of these legacy carriers were compounded by huge pension fund
deficits.


Some industry analysts considered the possibility that the economic
recession could offer an opportunity for budget carriers, as
passengers who continued to travel were expected to trade down.
By mid-2009, budget airlines accounted for more than 35 percent of
scheduled intra-European traffic. Ryanair was the clear market share
leader, with EasyJet another dominant force. (Exhibit 2 ). The two
were often compared and contrasted because both operated mainly
out of the United Kingdom and served the same markets. However, it
was a matter for debate as to whether EasyJet’s use of primary
airports would be better than Ryanair’s at capturing the traffic trading
down from network carriers.

Exhibit 2 Budget Airlines Sundry Data: Europe and United
States (2008–09)
Other budget carriers of diverse size and growth ambitions,
trajectories, and regional emphases varied in different levels of
services to passengers and use of main versus secondary airports.
The comparison with the U.S. budget airline market in Exhibit 2
indicates that penetration in Europe is less than in the United States,
which suggests scope for growth in the sector in Europe. It also
raises the question as to whether the extent of dominance enjoyed
by Southwest offers a model for Ryanair to assert itself further.
Another possible development trajectory for Ryanair was to follow up
on its announcement in 2007 to offer €10 transatlantic flights, an
idea that had not yet taken off and appeared to have been shelved
as of 2009.
Competitors and Comparators
The following section describes Ryanair’s budget airline competitors
and some selected other carriers. Exhibits 3     and 4    show
comparative fare levels and punctuality statistics, as well as airport
distances for Ryanair versus other airlines. This is in addition to the
Skytrax star ratings in Exhibit 2 , based on the perception of
delivered front-line product and service quality for Ryanair and other
budget airlines. There are no externally verified published data on
customer complaints, lost baggage, and flight cancellations, so it is
not possible to check out the veracity of Ryanair’s claims to
superiority on these factors. See Exhibits 5 and 6 for financial
and operational comparisons with competitors and benchmark airline
operators, including Southwest Airlines.

Exhibit 3 Comparative Fare Levels (same booking dates and
approximate departure times, includes one piece of luggage)
Exhibit 4 Punctuality Statistics (a) Comparative Punctuality on
Selected Routes for 2009
Exhibit 4(b) Punctuality Performance of Scheduled Airlines
Source: www.flightontime.info
Exhibit 5 Comparative Airline Financial Statistics
Sources: Annual Reports for Air Berlin (2010), Aer Lingus (2010), Norwegian (2010), British Airways (2010), EasyJet

(2010), Lufthansa (2006), Southwest Airlines (2010)
Exhibit 6 Comparative Airline Operational Statistics
Sources: Annual reports. Wizz Air (2010).
EasyJet
EasyJet, the second-largest budget airline in Europe, was Ryanair’s
greatest rival. As of the end of 2009, EasyJet served 114 airports in
27 countries on 422 routes with Airbus aircraft. Ryanair and EasyJet
frequently attacked each other as part of their “public relations.”
When accused by EasyJet of introducing stealth charges, Ryanair
retaliated by pointing out that, even with taxes included, its average
fare was well below EasyJet’s. Ryanair said that EasyJet had
charged each passenger £14 (€20) more per ticket than Ryanair,
thereby overcharging their passengers by £413 (€600) million in a
year. In fact, eventually, EasyJet had followed many of Ryanair’s
extra charge initiatives, such as a fee for check-in baggage.


Based at London Luton Airport, EasyJet was founded by Greek
Cypriot EasyGroup entrepreneur Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou in 1995.
Although it was listed on the London Stock Exchange, members of
the Haji-Ioannou family still owned almost 40 percent of the company
in 2010. The business model of EasyJet is somewhat different to
Ryanair in that it uses more centrally located airports, thus incurring
higher airport charges, but more actively courts the business
traveler. For example, Schiphol in Amsterdam and Orly Airport in
Paris are hubs, while the airline also uses Charles de Gaulle Airport
in the French capital. In 2009, EasyJet grew the number of business
passengers in spite of an overall decline in the business travel
market. EasyJet won a number of industry awards in 2009, including
Best European Budget Airline (World Traveler Awards), Best Airline
Website (Travolution), and the Condé Nast Traveler Best Low Cost
Airline award (for the sixth consecutive year).

In March 2008, EasyJet purchased GB Airways, a franchise of
British Airways, headquartered at London Gatwick, in a deal worth
£103.5 million. The takeover was used to expand EasyJet operations
at Gatwick and start operations at Manchester. While all GB aircraft
(fortuitously Airbus) were transferred to EasyJet, slots used by GB
Airways at London Heathrow Airport were not included in the sale.


Compared with Ryanair, EasyJet traditionally struggled on the profit
front, as it strove to bring down its costs. However, from the mid-
2000s, its results moved into profit. In contrast to airline industry
peers, the airline traded resiliently in 2009 during the recession, as it
was one of the few airlines globally to make a profit, with an
underlying pretax profit of £43.7 million. Revenue grew by 12.9
percent to £2,666.8 million, partially offsetting the £86.1 million
increase in unit fuel costs (equivalent to £1.63 per seat). The carrier
claimed to have given itself a platform for profitable growth in the
medium term from which to achieve a 15 percent return on equity
through improvements in network quality by taking advantage of
capacity cuts by other carriers to advance its position, gaining share
in important markets such as Milan, Paris, Madrid, and London
Gatwick, and increasing its slot portfolio at congested airports by
more than 10 percent. Other measures taken to improve
performance were lower-cost deals with key suppliers and
enhancements to its Web site. The board agreed to a fleet plan that
would deliver about a 7.5 percent growth per annum in seats flown
over the next five years, enabling EasyJet to grow its share of the
European short-haul market from about seven percent to 10 percent.


However, all was not well in the EasyJet boardroom. In May 2010,
Sir Stelios and another nonexecutive board member he had
nominated, Robert Rothenberg, declared open warfare on EasyJet
by resigning from its board to become “shareholder activists” against
its expansion plans. Sir Stelios was continuing his campaign started
in 2008, objecting to, “the management’s strategy of relentless
growth in aircraft numbers and lack of focus on profit margin
increase,” notwithstanding that the dispute had earlier appeared to
be resolved with a compromise that would see the airline keep
expanding by 7.5 percent a year.

The resignation of Sir Stelios came just three days after he delivered
a blast at departing chief executive Andy Harrison, declaring he was,
“over-rated and had increased nothing but the size of his bonus
since joining the airline in late 2005.” These comments were seen as
a parting shot at the chief executive after a 2008 boardroom row
over EasyJet’s growth strategy that preceded the announced
departures of Harrison and the airline’s finance director and
chairman.23 EasyJet’s incoming chief executive was to be Carolyn
McCall, the head of the Guardian Media Group. Sir Stelios added
that he, “feels sorry for the outgoing chief executive’s new
employers,” Whitbread, owner of Premier Inn and Costa Coffee. Sir
Stelios continued, “Over the past five years Andy Harrison
developed a love affair with Airbus, squandered £2.4 billion, doubling
the size of the fleet, while he paid no dividends and the share price
has gone sideways.”24


People close to the airline said they believed the move was related
to a separate brand licence dispute between the airline and Sir
Stelios, whose private EasyGroup owns the “Easy” brand and
licenses it to EasyJet. The dispute was settled out of court in
October 2010, whereby a previous annual payment of £1 by EasyJet
to use the “Easy” name was turned into a minimum £4 million per
year in a 50-year agreement.


The altercations occurred as EasyJet was forced to cut its 2010 full-
year profit guidance by £50 million because of the volcanic ash
disruption from the eruption of Iceland’s Eyjafjallajokull volcano that
had closed airspace in Europe for six days, obliging EasyJet to
cancel 6,512 flights in April 2010. This disruption was followed by a
summer of delayed flights and canceled services, resulting in the
dismissal of EasyJet’s director of operations by new CEO McCall,
who appeared to be placating Stelios when she announced a
maiden dividend, slower growth plans, and tougher negotiations for
new aircraft, involving both Airbus and Boeing.


The fierce rivalry between Ryanair and EasyJet was highlighted in a
libel action brought by Stelios against Ryanair over a Ryanair
advertisement depicting Stelios as Pinocchio (whose nose grew ever
longer as he told more fibs), tagging him as “Mr. Late Again” on the
basis of EasyJet’s refusal to publish its punctuality statistics. Initially,
when Stelios objected to the advertisements as personal and
libelous, O’Leary refused to apologize and suggested that the
dispute should be settled by a sumo wrestling contest or a race
around Trafalgar Square. However, O’Leary ended up apologizing
unreservedly to Stelios, as Ryanair agreed to pay a £50,000 penalty
and published a half-page apology in a national newspaper. Stelios
promised to donate the money to charity, saying, “I would like to
dedicate this little victory to all those members of the travelling public
who have suffered verbal abuse and hidden extras at the hands of
O’Leary.”25
Air Berlin
Originally a charter airline that started operations from Berlin in 1979,
Air Berlin expanded into scheduled services and styled itself as a
low-cost airline. However, it did not operate with a pure low-cost
carrier model. Most notably, instead of only point-to-point service, Air
Berlin offered guaranteed connections via its hubs. The airline also
offered free services including in-flight meals and drinks,
newspapers, and assigned seating. On flights operated on the
Airbus A330-200, a dedicated business class section was offered.
Air Berlin also ran a frequent flyer program, “topbonus,” in
collaboration with hotel and car rental partners as well as sundry
marginal airlines. Air Berlin had won numerous awards every year,
including being designated as the best low-cost carrier in Europe
from Skytrax and, in 2010, a best business travel award for short-
haul airlines.


The airline first floated on the stock exchange in May 2006, with its
initial share-price range reduced from €15.0 to €17.5 before finally
opening at €12 due to rising fuel costs and other market pressures at
that time. As a result of the IPO, the company claimed to have more
than €400 million in the bank to be used to fund further expansion,
including aircraft purchases. Since its announcement as a low cost
airline in the mid-2000s, it had only made a profit once, in 2006.


From 2009 onward, Air Berlin announced measures to strengthen its
efficiency and profitability, through a “Jump” performance program.
The aim was a significant improvement of turnover, income per
available seat kilometer (ASK), and revenue per passenger kilometer
(RPK). Operations were to be subjected to continuous and strict cost
control, and any opportunities for performance improvement on the
ground and in the air would be consistently explored and
implemented. In this context, the introduction of the Q400 turboprop
aircraft, first used in 2008 and featuring significantly lower fuel
consumption, was of great importance. In addition to the
improvement of operational performance, Air Berlin’s priority was in
strengthening its balance sheet, reducing indebtedness in a targeted
manner, by selling strategically unnecessary assets or activities.


In 2009, revenue per available seat kilometer (ASK) increased to
5.75 eurocents, for a seven percent increase over the previous year
(2008: 5.38 eurocents). The company declared that opportunities for
growth would continue to be exploited, provided that corresponding
income prospects were present. This applied particularly to the
expansion of attractive routes and feeder networks, together with
strategic partners, and increased targeting of select clients, such as
business passengers. The “Jump” performance improvement
program led to a marked improvement in operating income, with
losses in 2009 of €9.5 million, down from €83.5 million. Also the
balance sheet had been significantly improved with a capital
increase of 64 percent and a debt decrease of 25 percent, despite
the terrible trading conditions brought on by the global financial
crisis. However, these were due in large part to a drop in jet fuel
prices rather than to measures taken by the company. Despite
improvements in cost containment and expansion, 2010 was not
very promising profit-wise.


The carrier had been very active in acquiring shares in and
integrating with other airlines. This included former Formula One
racing driver Niki Lauda’s airline Niki, acquired in 2004. The two
airlines considered their cooperation a “low fares alliance.” Air Berlin
held 24 percent of Lauda’s enterprise, operating a mixed fleet of
Boeing 737s and Airbus A320s. In 2006, Air Berlin acquired dba,
formerly Deutsch British Airways, a budget airline based in Munich.


In March 2007, Air Berlin took over German leisure airline LTU,
thereby gaining access to the long-haul market and becoming the
fourth-largest airline group in Europe in terms of passenger traffic.
This deal led to the introduction of Airbus A321 and Airbus A330
aircraft into the Air Berlin fleet. With the merger of the LTU
operations, aircraft, and crew, the LTU brand was shut down. Later in
2007, Air Berlin acquired a 49 percent shareholding in Swiss charter
airline Belair, otherwise owned by tour operator Hotelplan. A month
later, in September 2007, Air Berlin announced an acquisition of its
direct competitor Condor in a deal that saw Condor’s owner, the
Thomas Cook Group, taking a 30 percent stake in Air Berlin.
However, the deal was scrapped in July 2008, owing to a variety of
considerations, including the rapidly increasing price of jet fuel.

In 2009, a strategic partnership agreement with TUI Travel was
signed, based on a cross-ownership of Air Berlin and its direct
competitor TUIfly of 19.9 percent in each other’s shares. Thereby, Air
Berlin took over all German domestic TUIfly routes, as well as those
to Italy, Croatia, and Austria. All of TUIfly’s Boeing 737-700 aircraft
were merged into Air Berlin’s fleet, leaving TUI to focus on serving
the charter market with the 21 aircraft of its remaining fleet. Also in
2009, Air Berlin announced a cooperation with Pegasus Airlines,
thus allowing its customers access to a broader range of
destinations and flights to and within Turkey on a codeshare-like
basis.
Norwegian Airlines
Norwegian was founded in 1993 as a regional airline taking over
routes in western Norway after the bankruptcy of Busy Bee. Until
2002, it operated Fokker 50 aircraft on wet lease for Braathens.
Following the 2002 merger of the two domestic incumbents
Braathens and Scandinavian Airlines, Norwegian established a
domestic low-cost carrier. It had since expanded quickly. By 2010, it
was the second-largest airline in Scandinavia and the fourth-largest
low-cost carrier in Europe. In 2009, it transported 10.8 million people
on 150 routes to 85 destinations across Europe into North Africa and
the Middle East. As of the end of 2009, Norwegian operated 46
Boeing 737 aircraft.


Norwegian’s main hub was Oslo Airport, Gardermoen, with
secondary hub operations at Bergen, Trondheim, Stavanger, Moss,
Copenhagen, Stockholm, and Warsaw. It offered a high-frequency
domestic flight schedule within Scandinavia, combined with a
lowfrequency service to international destinations from its focus
cities. Despite the economic downturn, Norwegian Air reported
significant passenger growth for 2009 with an 18 percent rise from
the previous year, as it expanded rapidly with new routes. In 2010,
the airline was set to grow further with the addition of 70 Boeing 737-
800 aircraft over the next five years. Norwegian charged passengers
for checked-in luggage (€6 each way per bag) as well as onboard
snacks and meals and seat selection.
In January 2009, Air Transport World (ATW) named Norwegian
“Market Leader of the Year.” The award recognized Norwegian for
several accomplishments: successful adaptation of the low-cost
model to the Scandinavian air travel market; its strategy to combine
low fares with high tech alongside a strong emphasis on customer-
focused information technology; swift market response in 2008 to the
collapse of Sterling, a Danish budget carrier; and the ability to stay
profitable in challenging times.


In February 2010, Norwegian was upgraded to “buy” from “neutral”
by Goldman Sachs, which cited its compelling valuation and benefits
from a route network with little significant competition, in particular
from large low-cost carriers such as Ryanair or EasyJet; a resilient
Norwegian economy; and strong growth in ancillary revenues.
Wizz Air
Wizz Air is a Hungary-based carrier operating budget scheduled
services linking Poland, Hungary, Bulgaria, Croatia, Romania, and
Slovenia with points in the Mediterranean, United Kingdom, Ireland,
Germany, France, Italy and Scandinavia. The airline, which operates
22 Airbus A320s from 10 bases spread across mainland Europe,
was founded in Katowice, Poland, in 2003 as a privately owned
budget carrier by Jozsef Varadi, former CEO of Malév, the Hungarian
flag carrier. Having considered the Ryanair versus the EasyJet
model, the founders of Wizz Air decided to adopt the Ryanair model:
to be as lowcost and no frills as possible.


An investor group led by Indigo Partners LLC, founders of
Singapore-based low-cost carrier Tiger Airways, became the largest
shareholder in December 2004. Budapest became the second
operating base in June 2005. Despite the economic climate Wizz
continued to expand and set up bases around its core Central and
Eastern European markets, with 72 aircraft due to be delivered over
the following five years from 2009.

As a private company Wizz Air did not publish any detailed financial
information. However, it appeared that the carrier had yet to make a
profit and faced massive challenges in terms of financing and
effectively deploying aircraft. Its further expansion required
substantial investment and cash reserves, which may not have been
readily available from Indigo when it was stretched with other
investments, including Tiger Airways. Nonetheless, the challenging
economic climate faced by Wizz Air could have been viewed as an
opportunity with many existing carriers in their target countries
reducing capacity and in danger of shutdown (Malev, Aerosvit, LOT-
Centralwings).

Wizz Air had assiduously adopted the Ryanair model, so the two
airlines consequently shared many similarities, such as the same
sort of unflattering comments about them on blog Web sites.
However, Wizz merited a three-star Skytrax rating compared with
two stars for Ryanair. Both carriers operated to secondary airports,
but Wizz operated longer average stage lengths, which resulted in
high aircraft utilization of 13 hours daily.


It had even been suggested it would make strategic sense for the
two airlines to merge, given the similarity of their cost-cutting
cultures.26 So far, there was little overlap between the route systems
of the two carriers, so they could have been complementarity in
combining their routes. However, Ryanair operated Boeing 737s,
while Wizz Air operated A320s. Such a “merger” would hardly have
been a merger, but more a takeover by Ryanair, and it could have
met with opposition from EU competition authorities.
Aer Lingus
Ryanair continues to hold a 29.8 percent share of Aer Lingus. The
carrier, operating short- and long-haul services, was the national
state-owned airline of Ireland until it was floated in October 2006.
The events of 9/11 were particularly traumatic for Aer Lingus, as the
airline teetered on the verge of bankruptcy. It put in place a plan for a
flotation, which had already been postponed several times. In late
2001, the choice was to change, be taken over, or be liquidated. Led
by a determined and focused chief executive, Willie Walsh (who was
to become the CEO of British Airways in 2005), and his senior
management team, the company set about cutting costs. One
ingredient of its cost reduction was a severance program, costing
more than €100 million, whereby 2,000 of its 6,000 employees left
the group. By the end of 2002, Aer Lingus had turned a 2001 €125
million loss into a €33 million profit, and it continued to improve still
further, posting a net profit of €88.9 million in 2005.


In essence, Aer Lingus maintained that it had transformed itself into
a low-fares airline and that it matched Ryanair fares or was only very
slightly higher on most routes. The airline’s chief operating officer
said that, “Aer Lingus no longer offers a gold-plated service to
customers, but offers a more practical and appropriate service . . . it
clearly differentiates itself from no-frills carriers. We fly to main
airports and not 50 miles away. We assign seats for passengers, we
beat low fares competitors on punctuality, even though we fly to
more congested airports, and we always fulfil our commitment to
customers—unlike no frills carriers.”27


Its customer proposition was “Low Fares, Way Better,” flying to more
convenient airports and posting leading punctuality statistics at
Heathrow. A survey conducted by the airline found that customers
considered Aer Lingus a better value for the money than Ryanair,
even at slightly higher fares. Aer Lingus achieved more than three
times as much short-haul passenger growth as Ryanair from Dublin
in 2005, with substantial opportunities to grow ancillary revenues.
Staff productivity improved from 3,475 to 6,108 passengers per
employee between 2001 and 2005.

However, from 2008, Aer Lingus’ fortunes began to deteriorate in the
face of the gathering recession, rising fuel costs, and fierce
competition on all its routes, resulting in losses for the years 2008
and 2009. Christophe Mueller joined the company as CEO in
September 2009 and set about trying to staunch losses suffered by
the airline as it expanded during a recession that hit its three main
markets of Ireland, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
Mueller outlined a plan to achieve cost savings of €97 million a year
by the end of 2011, in part by cutting staff numbers by nearly a fifth
and removing several senior pilots who were among the airline’s
most expensive employees. The airline was also targeting higher
yields rather than simply pursuing market share. The company was
on target to achieve pretax profits of €31 million in 2010 and €74
million in 2011, driven by a 12.5 percent increase in revenue per
passenger.
Revamping the strategic approach and culture of the airline was a
priority in Mueller’s ambition to improve revenue. Thus, the airline
rebranded itself as “Ireland’s civilised airline” as it unveiled a plan to
position itself midway between Ryanair and high-end carriers such
as British Airways, which some analysts compared with the
positioning of EasyJet. The airline’s “civilised” tag was seen as a dig
at Ryanair.28 While Aer Lingus hoped to lure business travelers with
faster check-in times, pre-paid meals, and conveniently located
airports, rather than the secondary ones for which Ryanair was
known, it would not focus on the quality lounges and free food and
drinks associated with full-service airlines.
Southwest Airlines
Ryanair was the first European airline to model itself on the
successful formula of Southwest Airlines in Texas by offering itself as
a low-fare, no-frills carrier, serving short-haul city pairs, and providing
single-class air transportation. As of 2010, Southwest operated more
than 3,200 flights a day coast to coast, making it the largest U.S.
carrier based on domestic passengers carried.


Southwest, founded in 1967, was the perceived underdog in the
ferocious price wars launched by the established airlines when the
new carrier entered their markets after deregulation. Southwest is
the only airline to have survived the shakeout of new entrants in the
sharply competitive U.S. environment. This survival served to inspire
Southwest, so that it styled itself more as a freedom fighter rather
than a mere corporation, listing “five symbols of freedom” in its
annual report: its people, its low fares, its customers, its operations,
and its advertising/promotions/marketing:


   People: Southwest had an acknowledged unique culture, largely
   attributable to its staff members and their commitment to the
   company and its customers. The creation of a “fun” environment
   was one of the ways in which the airline differentiated itself. The
   corporate culture of the company, referred to by Herb Kelleher, its
   iconic founder and chairman until 2008, as “a patina of
   spirituality” was ingrained in its people. A family loyalty feeling
   was further inculcated by staff development processes such as
team training, 80 percent internal promotion, and recognition
events and practices. Staff turnover was well below the industry
average. Overall compensation included profit-sharing schemes.
The workforce was almost entirely unionized. Southwest had
consistently been ranked as one of the best companies to work
for in the United States.
Low fares: Southwest claimed to have the lowest fares with the
simplest fare structure in the U.S. domestic airline industry. More
than 80 percent of customers bought travel on a ticketless basis
and approximately 80 percent of Southwest customers checked
in online or at a kiosk in 2010.
Customers: Southwest claims to give people the freedom to fly,
first and foremost with its low fares, but also with its streamlined
service to provide for short-haul customers needs—frequent
departures to meet customer demands for schedule frequency
and flexibility, nonstop services, and conveniently located airports
near city centers. The carrier also targeted business travelers
who constituted a substantial proportion of its passengers.
Southwest had a frequent flyer program, Rapid Rewards,
whereby a free round trip was given to a customer who had
purchased eight round trips on the same route. The carrier had
declined to join competitors in charging for the first and second
checked bags. However, passengers could incur extra charges
for Business Select fares offering priority seating, security lane
access, a premium beverage coupon, and flight credits. Other
services liable for extra charges were Pets Onboard,
Unaccompanied Minor service, and Early Bird Check-in.
   Operations: To maintain low fares, Southwest contained its
   costs on many fronts. Its point-to-point route system with frequent
   daily departures from the same airport was cheaper than most of
   its competitors’ hub-and-spoke systems. However, while three-
   fourths of its passengers flew point to point, connecting traffic
   grew with corresponding revenues of tens of millions of dollars in
   2009. The carrier flew into less congested airports of small cities
   or the smaller airports of large cities. This saved time as well as
   money in landing charges. The airline did not engage in interline
   baggage transfer and served only drinks and simple snacks on
   board for free, while charging for alcoholic beverages. These
   operations resulted in shorter time to turn around an aircraft,
   claimed by the company to be less than half the industry
   standard. This meant greater utilization of aircraft and lower unit
   costs.

The airline used only one aircraft type, the Boeing 737, in an all-
coach configuration. This substantially reduced costs due to
simplified operations, training, scheduling, and maintenance. Cost
containment was aided at Southwest by a cost- and time-conscious
workforce, constantly on the lookout for money-saving ideas. Despite
heavy unionization, there was virtually no job demarcation, as staff
performed tasks allocated to other people if it saved time and money.


From its inception, Southwest had received many awards and
recognitions. It has been recognized as received Best Low Cost/No
Frills Airline, finalist for Best Airline based in North America, Favorite
Domestic Airline and ranked #1 in Best Customer Service, Best
Airfare Prices, Best On-Time Service, Best Baggage Service, and
Best Value Frequent Flier program, and Best Low Cost Carrier.

In March 2009, Southwest Airlines was ranked number one in the
category for airlines in Institutional Investor’s magazine poll of
America’s Most Shareholder Friendly Companies, an award it had
received many times previously. Southwest Airlines was named the
seventh-most admired Company in Fortune magazine’s ranking of
the 50 Most Admired Companies in the World in 2009, the only U.S.
airline to make the list and the 13th consecutive year that Southwest
had been named to the Most Admired List. Moreover, its renowned
founder and CEO, Kelleher, was also lauded with awards,
culminating in his enshrinement in the National Aviation Hall of Fame
upon his retirement as chairman in 2008, to be replaced by Gary
Kelly, who had already replaced Kelleher as CEO in 2004. Kelly, a
CPA, had been CFO and originally joined Southwest in 1986 as
controller. Like his predecessor, Kelly has been the recipient of
numerous awards, including one of the best CEOs in America for
2008, 2009, and 2010 by Institutional Investor magazine.


In 2009, notwithstanding the recession and turmoil in the airline
industry, Southwest remained profitable, producing its 37th
consecutive year of profitability, although net income dropped to $99
million from $178 million the year before. Staying in the black was
due to various measures:


   An aggressive advertising campaign to affirm that Bags Fly Free
   only on Southwest, resulting in increased market share worth $1
   billion and record load factors;
   Rationalizing unpopular and unprofitable routes and redeploying
   capacity to developing markets;
   Picking up market share from defunct carriers, like Frontier
   Airlines;
   Other revenue intiatives, such as new products like onboard
   wireless Internet access, enhancements to southwest.com, and
   continued development of Rapid Rewards; and
   Containing costs and maximizing productivity.


Southwest also concentrated on maintaining financial strength, with
total liquidity of $3 billion expected to rise in 2010. The balance sheet
was investment-grade strong and also expected to improve even
more in 2010. However, prompted by slowing growth and rising
costs, in 2010, Southwest acquired AirTran, a rival U.S. budget
carrier, in one of the world’s biggest no-frills airline tie-ups. Would
this takeover deal by Southwest serve as yet another role model for
other budget carriers around the world?
Leading Ryanair into the Future
“It is good to have someone like Michael O’Leary around. He scares
people to death.” This praise of Ryanair’s CEO came from none
other than his fellow Irishman, Willie Walsh, CEO of BA.29 O’Leary
had been described as, “at turns, arrogant and rude, then charming,
affable and humorous, has terrorised rivals and regulators for more
than a decade. And so far, they have waited in vain for him to trip up
or his enthusiasm to wane.”30 In fact, O’Leary had been pronouncing
his intention to depart from the airline “in two years’ time” since 2005.
He had declared that he would sever all links with the airline,
refusing to “move upstairs” as chairman. “You don’t need a doddery
old bastard hanging around the place,” he proclaimed.31


O’Leary bred racehorses at his Gigginstown Stud 50 miles (80
kilometers) from Dublin. In 2006, his horse, War of Attrition won the
Cheltenham Gold Cup, one of the most prestigious races in
steeplechasing, while another, Hear the Echo, won the Irish Grand
National in 2008. He stayed in budget hotels and always flew
Ryanair, startling fellow passengers by taking their boarding passes
at the gate and by boarding the plane last where he invariably got a
middle seat. He did not sit in an executive lounge, had no
BlackBerry, and did not use email.


In 2010, O’Leary held just under four percent of Ryanair’s share
capital, having sold 5 million shares at €3.90. Although O’Leary
consistently praised the contributions and achievements of his
management team, Ryanair was inextricably identified with him. He
was credited with singlehandedly transforming European air
transport. In 2001, O’Leary received the European Businessman of
the Year Award from Fortune magazine; in 2004, The Financial
Times named him as one of 25 European “business stars” who have
made a difference. The newspaper described him as personifying,
“the brash new Irish business elite” and possessing, “a head for
numbers, a shrewd marketing brain, and a ruthless competitive
streak.”32


Present and former staff have praised O’Leary’s leadership style.
“Michael’s genius is his ability to motivate and energise people . . .
There is an incredible energy in that place. People work incredibly
hard and get a lot out of it. They operate a very lean operation . . . It
is without peer,” said Tim Jeans, a former sales and marketing
director of Ryanair, currently CEO of a small low-cost rival,
MyTravelLite.33


O’Leary’s publicity-seeking antics are legendary. These included his
“declaration of war” on EasyJet when, wearing an army uniform, he
drove a tank to EasyJet’s headquarters at Luton Airport. In another
stunt, when Ryanair opened its hub at Milan Bergamo, he flew there
aboard a jet bearing the slogan “Arrividerci Alitalia.” He had also
dressed up as St. Patrick and as the Pope to promote ticket offers.
Another provocative idea enunciated by O’Leary was the
recommendation that co-pilots could be done away with on flights, so
aircraft could fly with just one pilot, because, “the computer does
most of the flying now” and, “a flight attendant could do the job of a
co-pilot, if needed.”34 In fact, he even went so far as to suggest that
under present arrangements, “maybe the second pilot could be
doing some of the in-flight service.”35


O’Leary’s outspokenness has made him a figure of public debate.
“He is called everything from ‘arrogant pig’ to ‘messiah.”’36 His
avowed enemies included trade unions, politicians who imposed
airport taxes (calling former UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown a “twit”
and a “Scottish miser”37), environmentalists, bloggers who ranted
about poor service, travel agents, reporters who expected free seats,
regulators and the EU Commission, and airport owners like BAA,
whom he once called “overcharging rapists.”38 An EU Commissioner,
Philippe Busquin, denounced O’Leary as “irritating . . . and insists he
is not the only Commissioner who is allergic to the mere mention of
the name of Ryanair’s arrogant chief.”39


Irish Times columnist John McManus suggested that, “maybe it’s
time for Ryanair to jettison O’Leary,” asserting that O’Leary had
become a caricature of himself, fulfilling all 15 warning signs of an
executive about to fail.40 Professor Sydney Finklestein of the Tuck
Business School at Dartmouth U.S. identified the 15 signs under five
headings: ignoring change, the wrong vision, getting too close,
arrogant attitudes, and old formulae. But having demonstrated the
extent that O’Leary met the Finklestein criteria, McManus concluded,
“So, is it time for Ryanair to dump O’Leary? Depends whether you
prefer the track record of one of the most successful businessmen in
modern aviation or the theories of a U.S. academic from an Ivy
League school.”


Perhaps the last words should go to O’Leary himself; “We could
make a mistake and I could get hung,” he said. He reiterated a point
he had often made before: “It is okay doing the cheeky chappie,
running around Europe, thumbing your nose, but I am not Herb
Kelleher (the legendary founder of the original budget airline,
Southwest Airlines). He was a genius and I am not.”41


So, how do these comments and his hands-on management style fit
with O’Leary’s declaration to part company with Ryanair? Would he
really go, and if so, what would happen to Ryanair and its ambitions?
No one really knew the answer to these questions, but it would
certainly lie in O’Leary’s propensity to surprise his admirers and
detractors alike.
End Notes
1       (2009). “The FT ArcelorMittal Boldness in Business Awards.” Financial Times
supplement, March 20, p.25.
2       Done, K. (2009). “Airline industry in intensive care.” %Financial Times%, March 25,
p.22.
4       Done, K. (2009). “Ryanair sees opportunities in rivals’ distress.” Financial Times, July
28, p.15.
5       Done, K. (2009). Ibid. Aldi and Lidl are German discount hypermarkets, renowned for
their low prices and spreading quickly across Europe.
6       Financial Times, 2006. September 9, p. 16.
7       Done, K., and T. Braithwaite. (2006). “Ryanair to allow mobile phone calls next year.”
Financial Times, August 31, p.1.
8       Ryanair annual report. (2001).
9       Guthrie, J. (2009). “Sir Stelios beknighted as suits prove bolder risk takers.” Financial
Times, July 30, p. 16.
10       Ryanair annual report. (2009).
11       Ibid.
12       Lyall, S. (2009). “No apologies from the boss of a no-frills airline.” The New York
Times, August 1 (The Saturday Profile).
13       Ryanair 2007 half yearly results.
14       LEX. (2009). “Ryanair.” Financial Times, June 3, p. 16.
15       Noonan, L. (2009). “O’Leary admits stake in Aer Lingus was stupid disaster.” Irish
Independent, March 6.
16       (2006). Statement from Ryanair’s half yearly results presentation, November 6.
17       Ryanair full year results. (2009).
18       Milmo, D. (2006). “Ryanair—The World’s Least Favorite Airline.” The Guardian.
October 26.
19       Waite, R., and S. Swinford. (2009). “Ryanair more expensive than BA on some
flights.” Sunday Times, August 9.
20       Money Central. (2009). “WBLG: Twenty reasons never to fly Ryanair.” Times Online,
March 20.
21       Pope, C. (2009). “Pricewatch daily.” Irish Times, August 14, p. 11.
22       Lyall, S. (2009). “No apologies from the boss of a no-frills airline.” The New York
Times, August 1 (The Saturday Profile).
23       Ibid.
24       Clark, P. (2010). “EasyJet founder quits board.” Financial Times, May 15, p. 12.
25       Clark, P. (2010). “EasyJet founder savages Harrison.” Financial Times, May 12, p. 22.
26       (2010). “Ryanair and O’Leary apologise to EasyJet founder of Pinocchio ads.” Irish
Times, July 6.
27       Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation. (2009). “Ryanair meets Wizz Air: Does a merger
make sense?” July 8. http://www.centreforaviation.com/news/2009/07/08/ryanair-
meets-wizz-air-does-amerger-make-sense. Accessed May 2010.
28       Creaton, S. (2003). “Aer Lingus’s new model airline takes off.” Irish Times, August 8,
p. 52.
29       Clark, P. (2010). “Aer Lingus brands itself ‘civilised’ airline.” Financial Times, January
27, p. 18.
30       Done, K. (2008). “O’Leary shows it is not yet the end for budget air travel.” Financial
Times, August 2, p. 11.
31       The FT ArcelorMittal Boldness in Business Awards. (2009). Financial Times
supplement, March 20, p. 21.
32       Dalby, D. (2005). “I’m going for good, O’Leary tells Ryanair.” Sunday Times,
November 20, News, p. 3.
33       Groom, B. (2004). “Leaders of the new Europe: Business stars chart a course for the
profits of the future.” Financial Times, April 20.
34       Bowley, G. (2003). “How low can you go?” Financial Times Magazine, 9, June 21.
35       Clark, P. (2010). “Ryanair’s latest no-frills idea: sack the boss.” Financial Times,
September 14.
36       Hancock, C. (2010.). “The Friday interview: Michael O’Leary, Ryanair chief
executive.” Irish Times, Business This Week, September 24.
37       Ibid. Bowley, 2003.
38       Lyall, S. (2009). “No apologies from the boss of a no-frills airline.” The New York
Times, August 1 (The Saturday Profile).
39       Ibid.
40    Creaton, S. (2004). “Turbulent times for Ryanair’s high-flier.” Irish Times, January 31.
41    McManus, J. (2003). “Maybe it’s time for Ryanair to jettison O’Leary.” Irish Times,
August 11.
42    Bowley, G. (2003). “How low can you go?” Financial Times Magazine, 9, June 21.
Case 2–5: Torrey Nano, Inc.*

* This case is intended for class discussion only. Torrey Nano is a fictitious company and,
while nanotechnology is believed to offer great promise for the future in pharmaceuticals,
technical details in the case may not reflect reality.
Jack Heiner, the CEO of Torrey Nano, a seven-year-old
biotechnology firm, faced an important decision in the spring of 2017.
Torrey Nano, based in San Diego, California was a company of 35
employees, most of whom were research scientists. Torrey Nano’s
pharmaceutical product, codename Nano-4, was almost ready for
human testing. The company aspired to be a full-fledged
pharmaceutical company. However, like most biotech startups, it had
focused on R&D since its founding. Consequently, it had done no
manufacturing or marketing. With the impending human testing of
Nano-4, however, it faced the decision of whether to build a small-
scale pilot plant to manufacture Nano-4 for human trials. Nano-4 was
the fourth product that Torrey Nano had developed but the first to
advance to human trials. The drug had multiple potential therapeutic
applications, but Torrey Nano had focused on diabetes treatment as
its first application. The company had three other products in earlier
stages of development.

Human testing involved three phases. Phase I, which lasted from 6-
12 months, assessed basic human safety (e.g., adverse side effects,
etc.). If a product was approved in Phase I, it moved to Phase II
where the drug was tested with a small group of patients. Phase II
examined the efficacy of a drug in treating a disease and also
evaluated whether serious side effects occurred. Phase II usually
lasted from one to two years. Products that succeeded in Phases I
and II could go on to Phase III. Phase III, which could take two to five
years to complete, tested the drug using a large sample of patients.
Regulations required that whatever manufacturing processes were
used in Phase III must be the same as those used after the drug was
approved and marketed commercially.


The manufacturing of drugs based on nanotechnology was
considered highly complex and uncertain. Drugs based on
nanotechnology were particularly new in 2017 but were generally
thought to hold great promise for a wide variety of diseases. Several
reports suggested that manufacturing nano-materials was both
difficult to replicate and scale. Thus, it was challenging to develop
effective processes for manufacturing new nano-drugs. Some
nanotechnology drugs, while feasible to make in the small quantities
needed for pilot studies, were especially problematic to manufacture
on a large scale. Very small differences in processes could lead to
failure. Moreover, industry experts reported that firms often had
difficulty transferring a manufacturing process from one facility to
another. Few young companies had experience manufacturing
products of the type of Nano-4. There were, however, a handful of
contract manufacturers who had some experience in manufacturing
involving nanotechnology. Even for these firms, though, it often
required considerable trial and error before mastering the process for
a particular drug.


Torrey Nano managers identified five possible scenarios for how they
might handle the manufacturing of Nano-4. The five scenarios are
listed here with cash flow estimates included in Table 1 .
Table 1 Forecasted Cash Flows for Torrey Nano Investment
Scenarios
Scenario 1: Torrey Nano builds a pilot plant for Phases I/II and a
full-scale plant for Phase III.

Scenario 2: Torrey Nano builds a pilot plant for Phases I/II and
licenses out the manufacturing rights for Phase III.

Scenario 3: Contract out manufacturing for Phases I/II, build a full-
scale plant in-house for Phase III.

Scenario 4: Contract out manufacturing for Phases I/II and license
out manufacturing rights for Phase III.

Scenario 5: Manufacturing in all phases would be done by licensee.


In all five scenarios, Nano−4 would ultimately be distributed and
marketed by an established pharmaceutical firm that would serve as
Torrey Nano’s and/or the eventual manufacturer’s, marketing partner.
If Nano−4 successfully navigated clinical testing to reach the
commercial stage, analysts projected sales ranging from $75 million
in 2025 to over $288 million in 2035, the last year of patent
protection (see Table 2     ). As Heiner contemplated his options, it
was clear that the scenarios involving in-house manufacturing were
costlier, but potentially more lucrative. Both of the first two scenarios
required capital investments in 2018 and 2019 to build a pilot plant
while scenarios 1 and 3 required large capital outlays to build a full-
scale plant in 2020 and 2021 (see Table 3 ). Cash flow projections
suggested that building a full-scale plant would allow Torrey Nano to
capture a higher percentage of the revenue stream for Nano−4—$15
million licensing fee from its marketing partner in 2025 upon
successful completion of clinical trials and 40 percent of royalties.
Licensing the manufacturing rights after Phase II, as required by
Scenarios 2 and 4, would yield a lower payout—$10 million licensing
fee from the marketing partner and 10 percent royalties.


Table 2 Projected Sales from Nano−4 (in 000’s)
Table 3 Details for Cash Flows for Each Decision Scenario (in
000’s)
A pilot plant with sufficient capacity to produce output for Phases I
and II involved a $5 million investment in 2018. This investment
would cover all expenses including facilities and plant equipment.
The company would still incur $1 million in production costs in 2019
and 2020 as well as $2 million in expenses for the clinical trials in
those years. A larger-scale plant for Phase III and commercialization
would require a $30 million investment in 2020. Torrey Nano had
sufficient funds for the Phase I/II investment. The Phase III
investment would require another round of venture capital funding.
Heiner and Torrey Nano’s board, however, were convinced that such
funding was highly likely if Nano−4 successfully completed Phase I/II
testing. Venture capitalists expected returns of 30%, which a
successful pharmaceutical product would insure for a biotech firm
such as Torrey Nano.


Heiner believed that building a pilot plant (Scenarios 1 and 2) would
allow Torrey Nano to develop the foundation for future large-scale
manufacturing capabilities. While the company’s 35 employees were
mostly technically sophisticated research scientists, none had any
significant experience in manufacturing. The company did not have
any employees with the variety of operations management skills
needed for manufacturing. A pilot plant would allow Torrey Nano to
hire people and develop organizational capabilities in manufacturing.
Building a pilot plant was not without challenges and risks, however.
The process challenges involved in producing Nano−4 at even pilot
scale were somewhat uncertain and might pose challenging for a
firm with early capabilities in manufacturing. Some within the
company believed that manufacturing was outside of the company’s
capabilities and that Torrey Nano should stick to what it did best,
which was R&D.


Contract manufacturing (Scenarios 3 and 4) was a second option for
Phase I/II. Contracting required little to no capital investment on
Torrey Nano’s part. Several contract manufacturers had idle capacity,
and some had experience with the challenges of scaling
nanotechnology. Contracting was expensive. Torrey Nano forecasted
paying production costs of $2 million in 2018 and $2.5 million in
2019. The company would also pay $2 million each year for clinical
trial expenses. Because of the uncertainties involved in
manufacturing a new drug, formulating a contract that was
satisfactory to the two firms involved could be a lengthy process.
Even with the most well-intentioned efforts, a contract was likely to
fail to foresee important contingencies. Such failures in foresight
would trigger considerable negotiation between the firms.
Contracting also necessitated the sharing of a considerable amount
of sensitive proprietary information. Such information could help
potential competitors and contractors gain a more advantageous
position against Torrey Nano.


Scenario 3 was a compromise between outsourcing and in-house
manufacturing. In this scenario, Torrey Nano would contract out the
manufacturing for Phases 1 and 2, but vertically integrate for Phase
3 and commercial manufacturing. The costs for Phases I/II were the
same as in Scenario 2, but the costs and payout in Phase III and
commercialization were identical to those in Scenario I. The appeal
of this option is that it would allow Torrey Nano to avoid the
significant capital investments involved in developing a pilot plant yet
reap the higher royalties (forecasted at 40 percent) that doing
manufacturing in-house would yield. Construction on a commercial-
scale plant would need to begin as soon as possible after the
completion of Phase II trials. The challenge involved in Scenario 3 is
that it required Torrey Nano to make the leap to manufacturing on a
larger-scale without first developing its capabilities at a smaller scale.


Scenario 4 involved contracting out manufacturing for Phases I/II
and then licensing out the manufacturing rights for Phase III and
commercialization. In this scenario, Torrey Nano would not need to
develop manufacturing capabilities and would not have to incur the
$5 million costs of a pilot plant or the $30 million investment
associated with Phase III.


Scenario 5 involved entering in a license deal immediately. In this
scenario, the licensing partner would bear all the costs and risks
involved in manufacturing and regulatory approvals for Phases I, II,
and III as well as commercialization. Torrey Nano would receive a $5
million payment and 5 percent royalties from future sales of Nano−4.
However, Torrey Nano would forego the opportunity to capture the
much higher royalties associated with the other scenarios.


As Heiner reflected on Torrey Nano’s scenarios, he realized that they
involved important tradeoffs. Some of the scenarios offered a
potential stepping stone for the company to realize its aspiration of
becoming a stand-alone pharmaceutical firm. Other options
increased the company’s chance of survival, and would guarantee
the company the ability to develop other products. Heiner wondered
if other products in the pipeline had as much or more potential than
Nano−4. It was difficult to say. What did Heiner’s employees want?
All were impressive scientists with abundant opportunities at other
firms. They gravitated to Torrey Nano because the scientific
problems it addressed were both exciting and important. In many
cases, though, the scientists were looking to combine interesting
science with the opportunity to make their fortunes in the right
startup. As Heiner pondered these questions, he realized that the
time for analysis was over. He had to decide.
Case 2–6: Collusion in Major
League Baseball*

* This case was prepared by William Hesterly for the purposes of class discussion. Much of
the case is based on earlier research by William Hesterly and Aya Chacar. Aya S. Chacar
and William Hesterly, 2008, “Institutional Settings and Rent Appropriation by Knowledge-
based Employees: The Case of Major League Baseball, Managerial and Decision
Economics, 29:117-136. Aya S. Chacar and William Hesterly, 2004, “Innovation and Value
Creation in Major League Baseball.” Business History, 46, 407-420. This research drew
heavily on the historical accounts of the following sources: R.F. Burk, 1994, Never Just a
Game: Players, Owners and American Baseball to 1920. University of North Carolina Press,
Chapel Hill, NC. John Helyar, Lords of the Realm: The Real History of Baseball.> New York:
Ballantine Books. G.E. White, Creating the National Pastime: Baseball Transforms Itself,
1903-53. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
In November 1990, one of Major League
Baseball’s (MLB) most controversial episodes in
its troubled labor relations history concluded
with a $290 million settlement. The settlement
required teams to pay players $280 million with
the Major League Baseball Players Association
(MLBPA) governing the distribution of damages
to players. How Major League Baseball reached
this point is grounded in peculiar history.
Baseball historians divide the history of the MLB
into distinct eras. These eras represent shifting
bargaining power between the players and
owners over a 150-year period.
Era 1 1860-1903i
The early days of baseball were characterized by an absence of any
institutional structure that limited bargaining by either players or
teams. Some star players— termed revolvers— switched teams
frequently. In some cases, a player would change teams from one
day to the next. Some apocryphal stories claimed that some players
switched teams in the middle of a game. Typically, players profited
much more than owners did in this era. As a result, both teams and
leagues were fragile with many quickly coming into and out of
existence. Leagues made some attempts to limit pay, but rival teams
and leagues would quickly emerge to bid away the best players. And
often, more successful players and owners would simply ignore the
rules. Teams that employed revolvers won more games, but often
did not make a profit. Teams that did not pay premiums for the best
players usually initiated a downward spiral of losing followed by
attendance declines, which ultimately led to team dissolution.
Indeed, few teams lasted more than two years. Player salaries
showed large fluctuations. As new leagues and teams were formed
to compete with existing leagues, player salaries went up, but then
declined as teams and leagues folded.
Era 2: 1903-1976
Eventually, enough owners realized that unless they cooperated in
controlling player wages, that few, if any, teams or leagues would
have long-term sustainability. A critical turning point was the
formation of the National and American Leagues. In both leagues,
the owners vested more centralized authority in the league. This
centralization increased dramatically after the 1919 World Series
scandal where several players were later convicted of having taken
bribes to alter the outcomes of games. Judge Kennesaw Mountain
Landis was appointed Commissioner of Baseball and given broad
powers over the American and National Leagues as well as all
affiliated minor leagues and teams.

The fundamental rule that governed bargaining between players and
teams during this era was the reserve cause. The reserve clause
was first used in 1879 but by the early 1900s it was universal in
Major League contracts. A 1960s version of the reserve clause
follows:

  On or before January 15 . . . the Club may tender to the Player a contract for the term of
  that year by mailing the same to the Player. If prior to the March 1 next succeeding said
  January 15, the Player and the Club have not agreed upon the terms of such contract,
  then on or before 10 days after said March 1, the Club shall have the right . . . to renew
  this contract for the period of one year (Helyar, 1994, p. 36).
The explicit meaning of the reserve clause was that teams could not
negotiate or contract with players who were presently under contact
with a team or who had previously been under contract to a team
within the last year. However, the reserve clause for much of this era
was perhaps universally understood to mean that a team could not
negotiate or contract with a player whose previous team had not sold
or otherwise renounced its rights to employ the player. In other
words, most thought that the reserve clause gave a team the
exclusive right to employ a player in perpetuity. Thus, a player
unhappy with his present team could not offer his services to other
teams. Teams could, however, buy and sell the contracts of players
with each other, a practice known as trading players.


There were some early legal challenges to the reserve clause.
Several courts split on the constitutionality of the reserve clause, but
a Federal Appeals court ruling that it was constitutional was upheld
by a 1922 Supreme Court decision. In the decision, Judge Oliver
Wendell Holmes famously opined that baseball was exempt from
anti-trust laws because “baseball are purely state affairs.” Following
the Supreme Court decision, there was little to no contesting of the
reserve clause for over four decades. With few exceptions, players
claimed that the reserve clause was good for them and for baseball
more generally. The owners instituted other rules besides the
reserve clause that weakened players’ bargaining power. Players
were not allowed to have agents represent them. Also, contract
terms were not public. As a result, many players were told that they
ranked much higher in pay on their teams than was actually the
case. For example, some players were told that they were among
the highest paid players on their teams when they were below the
median salary of their teammates. Even some of baseball’s greatest
stars had little bargaining power. The Philadelphia Athletics tried to
cut Jimmie Foxx’s salary in 1933 after he achieved baseball’s triple
crown (the most home runs, highest batting average, and most runs
batted in the same year). Lou Gehrig did not receive a pay increase
a year later after winning the Triple Crown. Ralph Kiner received a
25% pay cut from the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1953 even though he had
led the National League in home runs for seven straight years.
Branch Rickey, the president of the Pirates, reportedly told Kiner,
“We finished last with you. We can finish last without you.” Many
players, even stars such as Yogi Berra, held second jobs in the off-
season. Few players held out for higher salaries, and when they did,
they received little public sympathy.


Remarkably, there were no organized efforts to change the reserve
clause and representation rules during this era. The collective
actions that players took during this time were centered on
inconsequential things such as not requiring the players to purchase
their own uniforms. Late in this era, the players did organize more
effectively, but their primary goal was to create a pension fund for
players.
Era 3: 1977 to the Present
Even though the players’ share of baseball’s economic pie had been
decreasing for decades, the players made little attempt to challenge
the owners superior position. A number of catalysts occurred in the
1960s to begin pressure for change. The players hired Marvin Miller,
formerly a chief economist for the powerful Steelworkers union.
Miller immediately saw what the players had long failed to see. In his
view, baseball players were the most oppressed workers that he had
seen in the United States. During the 1960s, both the NFL and NBA
were challenged by new leagues, the AFL and ABA respectively.
Overnight, players were being offered unheard of salaries to jump
leagues. This caused both the NFL and the NBA to respond with
dramatic salary increases. Seeing their peers in other professional
sports receive higher pay led the players to challenge the status quo
in baseball’s labor relations. The owners’ aggressive response to
players who spoke out only increased the spread of militancy among
players.


Through a series of court cases and arbitrator decisions, the reserve
clause was defined to mean that teams did not control a player’s
rights in perpetuity. An arbitrator ruled in December 1975 that a
player became a free agent one year after the expiration of his
contract. As a response of the arbitrator’s decision, the owners and
players reached a series of Collective Bargaining Agreements where
players could either enter salary arbitration or free agency (the
freedom to sign with any team) after a specified number of years in
the Major Leagues. Miller designed a two-tier system of arbitration
and free agency with the intent that there would be a limited number
of free agents in any given year. His reasoning was that many teams
competing for a few free agents would drive the price of free agents
much higher than if there were many free agents. The high salaries
of free agents would then serve as comparisons for arbitration
cases. Thus, the free agency would drive up the salaries of not only
free agents but those who went through salary arbitration as well.

Other rule changes further strengthened the players’ bargaining
position. New rules allowed players to have agent representation.
Salary information was made widely available and was available to
players and agents in salary negotiations. Average salaries went
from $19,000 in 1967 to an average of $371,000 in 1985 (see Table
1 and Figure 1 ). The minimum salary went from $6,000 to
$60,000 during the same period (see Table 1 and Figure 2 ).


Table 1 Minimum and Average Salaries in Major League
Baseball, 1970-88
Figure 1
Figure 2
Collusion: 1985-88
The spectacular increase in player salaries was a source of
considerable tension for owners. Broadcast revenues generally
increased at the same rate as player salaries during this period, but
some teams were struggling financially. Some baseball executives
were especially concerned that, collectively, teams had over $50
million in financial obligations to players who could no longer play
due to injury. Long-term contracts were also a concern. Some team
executives claimed that players were less productive after signing
such contracts.


These tensions led some baseball executives to urge the need for
self-restraint in signing free agents. Baseball’s new commissioner,
Peter Ueberroth was particularly aggressive in encouraging owners
to be more conservative in both signing free agents and signing
players to long-term contracts. Though Ueberroth was careful to
have attorneys caution owners against collusive behavior,
considerable pressure was exerted on teams to not sign free agents.
Many teams adopted policies against long-term contracts and
signing free agents. In the off season between 1985 and 1986, the
free agent market was considerably less friendly to players than in
previous years. Even some of baseball’s biggest stars found that
other teams were not interested in signing them. Remarkably, only
four of the 35 free agents that year signed with other teams. Those
four players were journeymen who were no longer wanted by their
previous team. In February 1986, the players’ association filed a
grievance that came to be known as Collusion I.

The situation did not improve for free agents between the 1986 and
1987 seasons. The teams began to share with each other their
intentions concerning free agents from their teams. For example, a
team might share with other teams which of their free agents they
intended to re-sign. Players argued that this was a signal to other
teams not to offer a contract to that player. As with 1986, only four
free agents switched teams in 1987. That year also marked the first
time in the free agency era that average player salaries had not
increased from one year to the next. The MLBPA responded by filing
a second grievance, known as Collusion II.


In September 1987, an arbitrator ruled that, in part because of the
precipitous drop in offers of contracts to free agents, the owners had
been guilty of collusion between the 1985 and 1986 seasons.
However, the arbitrator did not decide on the amount of damages at
that time. The owners took this as a signal to offer contracts to more
free agents after the 1987 season. Many of these offers merely
matched the offers of the player’s current team. Other offers for free
agents were for less than the player’s offer from his current team.
Not surprisingly, the players filed a third grievance in January of
1988, termed Collusion III. By this time, however, the owner’s
coordination was showing some cracks. Some owners pursued
desirable free agents out of self-interest and were slow to inform
their peers about their intentions and actions. Team profitability had
improved also. The ease of economic pressures led some teams to
increase their focus on winning, which led to more competition for
free agents. Subsequent arbitrator rulings hastened the breakdown
of collusion among the owners. In October 1989, an arbitrator
awarded the players $38 million to settle Collusion II. Later
arbitrators added $64.5 in damages for Collusion III followed by the
final settlement in November 1990 of $280 million. Fay Vincent, who
was commissioner at that time, condemned the practices of the
owners during the previous years. Many observers have claimed that
relations between the players and the owners were severely
damaged by the years of collusion and contributed greatly to a major
strike in 1994 that canceled the last months of the season as well as
the playoffs and World Series.
Part 3 Corporate Strategies
Chapter 8 Vertical Integration
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to:


               8.1 Define corporate strategy.
               8.2 Define vertical integration, forward vertical
               integration, and backward vertical integration.
               8.3 Discuss how vertical integration can create
               value by:
                   a. reducing the threat of opportunism;
                   b. enabling a firm to exploit its valuable, rare,
                     and costly-to-imitate resources and
                     capabilities;
                   c. enabling a firm to retain its flexibility.


               8.4 Describe conditions under which vertical
               integration can be a source of sustained
               competitive advantage.
               8.5 Describe how the functional organization
               structure, management controls, and
               compensation policies are used to implement
               vertical integration.
MyLab Management
  Improve Your Grade!

If your instructor is using MyLab Management, visit
www.pearson.com/mylab/management for
simulations, tutorials, and end-of-chapter problems.
Outsourcing Research




Bernhard Classen/Alamy Stock Photo




First it was simple manufacturing—toys, dog food, and the like
—that was outsourced to Asia. This was OK because even
though manufacturing could be outsourced to China and
India, the real value driver of the Western economy—services
—could never be outsourced. Or at least that was what we
thought.

And then firms started outsourcing call centers and tax
preparation and travel planning and a host of other services to
India and the Philippines. Anything that could be done on a
phone or on-line, it seemed, could be done cheaper in Asia.
Sometimes, the quality of the service was compromised, but
with training and additional technological development, maybe
even these problems could be addressed. And this was OK
because the real value driver of the Western economy—
research and intellectual property—could never be
outsourced. Or at least that was what we thought.

Now, it turns out that some leading Western pharmaceutical
firms—including Merck, Eli Lilly, and Johnson & Johnson—
have begun outsourcing some critical aspects of the
pharmaceutical research and development process to
pharmaceutical firms in India. This seemed impossible just a
few years ago.

In the 1970s, India announced that it would not honor
international pharmaceutical patents. This policy decision had
at least two important implications for the pharmaceutical
industry in India. First, it led to the founding of thousands of
generic drug manufacturers there—firms that reverse
engineered patented drugs produced by U.S. and Western
European pharmaceutical companies and then sold them on
world markets for a fraction of their original price. Second,
virtually no pharmaceutical research and development took
place in India. After all, why spend all the time and money
needed to develop a new drug when generic drug firms would
instantly reverse engineer your technology and undercut your
ability to make a profit?

All this changed in 2003 when the Indian government
reversed its policies and began honoring global
pharmaceutical patents. Now, for the first time in more than
two decades, Indian firms could tap into their pool of highly
educated scientists and engineers and begin engaging in
original research. But developing the skills needed to do
world-class pharmaceutical research on your own is difficult
and time-consuming. So, Indian firms began searching for
potential partners in the West.

In the beginning, Western pharmaceutical companies
outsourced only very routine lab work to their new Indian
partners. But many of these firms found that their Indian
partners were well-managed, with potentially significant
technical capability, and willing to do more research-oriented
kinds of work. Since 2007, a surprisingly large number of
Western pharmaceutical firms have begun outsourcing
progressively more important parts of the research and
development process to their Indian partners.

And what do the Western firms get out of this outsourcing?
Not surprisingly—low costs. It costs about $250,000 per year
to employ a Ph.D. chemist in the West. That same $250,000
buys five such scientists in India. Five times as many
scientists means that pharmaceutical firms can develop and
test more compounds faster by working with their Indian
partners than they could do on their own. The mantra in R&D
—“fail fast and cheap”—is more easily realized when much of
the early testing of potential drugs is done in India and not the
West.

Of course, testing compounds developed by Western firms is
not exactly doing basic research in pharmaceuticals. Early
results indicate that Indian R&D efforts in pharmaceuticals
  have met with only limited success. For example, an alliance
  between Eli Lilly and its Indian partner, Zydus, was called off
  in early 2012. Disappointing results have also emerged in
  alliances between Merck and Novartis and their Indian
  partners. Also, recently the Indian government has begun to
  not recognize global pharmaceutical patents and is
  contemplating putting price limits on some drugs sold in India.
  All this will probably make it more difficult for true drug R&D to
  emerge in India. However, if Indian firms can develop R&D
  capabilities, their lower costs may make them attractive
  outsourcing parties for international pharmaceutical firms.1

The decision to hire an offshore company to
accomplish a specific business function—like
pharmaceutical R&D—is an example of a
decision that determines the level of a firm’s
vertical integration. This is the case whether the
company that is hired to perform these services
is in the United States or India.
What Is Corporate Strategy?
Objective 8.1 Define corporate strategy.


Vertical integration is the first corporate strategy examined in detail in
this book. As suggested in Chapter 1 , business strategy is a
firm’s theory of how to gain competitive advantage in a single
business or industry. The four business strategies discussed in this
book are cost leadership, product differentiation, flexibility, and
collusion. Corporate strategy is a firm’s theory of how to gain
competitive advantage by operating in several businesses
simultaneously. Decisions about whether to vertically integrate often
determine whether a firm is operating in a single business or industry
or in multiple businesses or industries. Other corporate strategies
discussed in this book include, diversification, strategic alliances,
and mergers and acquisitions.
What Is Vertical Integration?
Objective 8.2 Define vertical integration, forward vertical
                integration, and backward vertical integration.

The concept of a firm’s value chain was first introduced in Chapter
3 . As a reminder, a value chain is that set of activities that must
be accomplished to bring a product or service from raw materials to
the point that it can be sold to a final customer. A simplified value
chain of the oil and gas industry, originally presented in
Figure 3.2 , is reproduced in Figure 8.1 .
Figure 8.1 A Simplified Value Chain of Activities in the Oil and
Gas Industry
A firm’s level of vertical integration is simply the number of steps
in this value chain that a firm accomplishes within its boundaries.
Firms that are more vertically integrated accomplish more stages of
the value chain within their boundaries than firms that are less
vertically integrated. A more sophisticated approach to measuring
the degree of a firm’s vertical integration is presented in the Strategy
in Depth feature .


A firm engages in backward vertical integration          when it
incorporates more stages of the value chain within its boundaries
and those stages bring it closer to the beginning of the value chain,
that is, closer to gaining access to raw materials. When computer
companies developed all their own software, they were engaging in
backward vertical integration because these actions are close to the
beginning of the value chain. When they began using independent
companies operating in India to develop this software, they were less
vertically integrated backward.

A firm engages in forward vertical integration       when it
incorporates more stages of the value chain within its boundaries
and those stages bring it closer to the end of the value chain; that is,
closer to interacting directly with final customers. When companies
staffed and operated their own call centers in the United States, they
were engaging in forward vertical integration because these activities
brought them closer to the ultimate customer. When they started
using independent companies in India to staff and operate these
centers, they were less vertically integrated forward.
Of course, in choosing how to organize its value chain, a firm has
more choices than whether to vertically integrate or not vertically
integrate. Indeed, between these two extremes a wide range of
somewhat vertically integrated options exists. These alternatives
include various types of strategic alliances and joint ventures, the
primary topic of Chapter 11 .
The Value of Vertical Integration
Objective 8.3 Discuss how vertical integration can create value by:
                  a. reducing the threat of opportunism;
                  b. enabling a firm to exploit its valuable, rare, and costly-to-imitate resources and
                     capabilities;
                  c. enabling a firm to retain its flexibility.


The question of vertical integration—which stages of the value chain should be included within a firm’s
boundaries and why—has been studied by many scholars for almost 100 years. The reason this
question has been of such interest was first articulated by Nobel Prize-winning economist Ronald
Coase. In a famous article originally published in 1937, Coase asked a simple question: “Given how
efficiently markets can be used to organize economic exchanges among thousands, even hundreds of
thousands, of separate individuals, why would markets, as a method for managing economic
exchanges, ever be replaced by firms? In markets, almost as if by magic, Adam Smith’s “invisible hand”
coordinates the quantity and quality of goods and services produced with the quantity and quality of
goods and services demanded through the adjustment of prices—all without a centralized controlling
authority. However, in firms, centralized bureaucrats monitor and control subordinates who, in turn,
battle each other for “turf” and control of inefficient internal “fiefdoms.” Why would the “beauty” of the
invisible hand ever be replaced by the clumsy “visible hand” of the modern corporation?”3
S T R AT E G Y I N D E P T H




Measuring Vertical Integration

It is sometimes possible to observe which stages of the value chain a firm is engaging in and,
thus, the level of that firm’s vertical integration. Sometimes, however, it is more difficult to directly
observe a firm’s level of vertical integration. This is especially true when a firm believes that its
level of vertical integration is a potential source of competitive advantage. In this case, the firm
would not likely reveal this information freely to competitors.

In this situation, it is possible to get a sense of the degree of a firm’s vertical integration—though
not a complete list of the steps in the value chain integrated by the firm—from a close
examination of the firm’s value added as a percentage of sales. Valued added as a
percentage of sales measures that percentage of a firm’s sales that is generated by activities
done within the boundaries of a firm. A firm with a high ratio between value added and sales has
brought many of the value-creating activities associated with its business inside its boundaries,
consistent with a high level of vertical integration. A firm with a low ratio between value added
and sales does not have, on average, as high a level of vertical integration.

Value added as a percentage of sales is computed using the following equation in Exhibit 1              .
   E X H IB IT 1


                                               value addedi − (net income + income taxesi )
                                                                              i
            vertical integration       =
                                   i
                                                   salesi − (net income + income taxesi
                                                                      i




   where,

                   vertical integration = the level of vertical integration for firm
                                           i                                              i

                          value addedi = the level of value added for firmi

                            net informi = the level of net income for firmi

                         in come taxesi = firmi 's income taxes

                                  salesi = firmi 's sales




   The sum of net income and income taxes is subtracted in both the numerator and the
   denominator in this equation to control for inflation and changes in the tax code over time. Net
   income, income taxes, and sales can all be taken directly from a firm’s profit and loss statement.
   Value added can be calculated using the equation in Exhibit 2          .

   E X H IB IT 2



    value added = depreciation + amortization + fixed charges + interest expense + labor a




   Again, most of the numbers needed to calculate value added can be found either in a firm’s profit
   and loss statement or in its balance sheet.2


Coase began to answer his own question when he observed that sometimes the cost of using a market
to manage an economic exchange must be higher than the cost of using vertical integration and
bringing an exchange within the boundary of a firm. Over the years, efforts have focused on identifying
the conditions under which this would be the case. The resulting work has described several different
situations where vertical integration can either increase a firm’s revenues or decrease its costs
compared with not vertically integrating, that is, several situations where vertical integration can be
valuable. The following sections present three of the most influential of these explanations of when
vertical integration can create value for a firm.
Vertical Integration and the Threat of Opportunism
One of the best-known explanations of when vertical integration can be valuable focuses on using
vertical integration to reduce the threat of opportunism.4 Opportunism         exists when a firm is unfairly
exploited in an exchange. Examples of opportunism include when a party to an exchange expects a
high level of quality in a product it is purchasing, only to discover it has received a lower level of quality
than it expected; when a party to an exchange expects to receive a service by a particular point in time
and that service is delivered late (or early); and when a party to an exchange expects to pay a price to
complete this exchange and its exchange partner demands a higher price than what was previously
agreed.

Obviously, when one of its exchange partners behaves opportunistically, this reduces the economic
value of a firm. One way to reduce the threat of opportunism is to bring an exchange within the
boundary of a firm, that is, to vertically integrate into this exchange. This way, managers in a firm can
monitor and control this exchange instead of relying on the market to manage it. If the exchange that is
brought within the boundary of a firm brings a firm closer to its ultimate suppliers, it is an example of
backward vertical integration. If the exchange that is brought within the boundary of a firm brings a firm
closer to its ultimate customer, it is an example of forward vertical integration.


Of course, firms should only bring market exchanges within their boundaries when the cost of vertical
integration is less than the cost of opportunism. If the cost of vertical integration is greater than the cost
of opportunism, then firms should not vertically integrate into an exchange. This is the case for both
backward and forward vertical integration decisions.


So, when will the threat of opportunism be large enough to warrant vertical integration? Research has
shown that the threat of opportunism is greatest when a party to an exchange has made transaction-
specific investments. A transaction-specific investment          is any investment in an exchange that has
significantly more value in the current exchange than it does in alternative exchanges. Perhaps the
easiest way to understand the concept of a transaction-specific investment is through an example.


Consider the economic exchange between an oil refining company and an oil pipeline building company,
which is depicted in Figure 8.2 . As can be seen in the figure, this oil refinery is built on the edge of a
deep-water bay. Because of this, the refinery has been receiving supplies of crude oil from large tanker
ships. However, an oil field exists several miles distant from the refinery, but the only way to transport
crude oil from the oil field to the refinery is with trucks—a very expensive way to move crude oil,
especially compared to large tankers. But if the oil refining company could find a way to get crude oil
from this field cheaply, it would probably make this refinery even more valuable.
Figure 8.2 The Exchange Between an Oil Refinery and an Oil Pipeline Company


Enter the pipeline company. Suppose this pipeline company approaches the refinery and offers to build
a pipeline from the oil field to the refinery. In return, all the pipeline company expects is for the refinery to
promise to buy a certain number of barrels of crude at an agreed-to price for some period, say, five
years, through the pipeline. If reasonable prices can be negotiated, the oil refinery is likely to find this
offer attractive, for the cost of crude oil carried by the pipeline is likely to be lower than the cost of crude
oil delivered by ship or by truck. Based on this analysis, the refinery and the oil pipeline company are
likely to cooperate and the pipeline is likely to be built.


Now, five years go by, and it is time to renegotiate the contract. Which of these two firms has made the
largest transaction-specific investments? Remember that a transaction-specific investment is any
investment in an exchange that is more valuable in that particular exchange than in alternative
exchanges.


What specific investments has the refinery made? Well, how much is this refinery worth if this exchange
with the pipeline company is not renewed? Its value would probably drop some because oil through the
pipeline is probably cheaper than oil through ships or trucks. So, if the refinery doesn’t use the pipeline
any longer, it will have to should use these alternative supplies. This will reduce its value some—say,
from $1 million to $900,000. This $100,000 difference is the size of the transaction-specific investment
made by the refining company.
However, the transaction-specific investment made by the pipeline firm is probably much larger.
Suppose the pipeline is worth $750,000 as long as it is pumping oil to the refinery. But if it is not
pumping oil, how much is it worth? Not very much. An oil pipeline that is not pumping oil has limited
alternative uses. It has value either as scrap or (perhaps) as the world’s largest enclosed water slide. If
the value of the pipeline is only $10,000 if it is not pumping oil to the refinery, then the level of
transaction-specific investment made by the pipeline firm is substantially larger than that made by the
firm that owns the refinery: $750,000 - $10,000, or $740,000, for the pipeline company versus
$100,000 for the refining company.

So, which company is at greater risk of opportunism when the contract is renegotiated; the refinery or
the pipeline company? Obviously, the pipeline company has more to lose. If it cannot come to an
agreement with the oil refining company, it will lose $740,000. If the refinery cannot come to an
agreement with the pipeline company, it will lose $100,000. Knowing this, the refining company can
squeeze the pipeline company during the renegotiation by insisting on lower prices or more timely
deliveries of higher-quality crude oil, and the pipeline company really cannot do much about it.


Of course, managers in the pipeline firm are not stupid. They know that after the first five years of their
exchange with the refining company they will be in a very difficult bargaining position. So, in anticipation,
they will insist on much higher prices for building the oil pipeline in the first place than would otherwise
be the case. This will drive up the cost of building the pipeline, perhaps to the point that it is no longer
cheaper than getting crude oil from ships. If this is the case, then the pipeline will not be built, even
though if it could be built and the threat of opportunism eliminated, both the refining company and the
pipeline company would be better off.


One way to solve this problem is for the oil refining company to buy the oil pipeline company—that is, for
the oil refinery to backward vertically integrate.5 When this happens, the incentive for the oil refinery to
exploit the vulnerability of the pipeline company will be reduced. After all, if the refinery business tries to
rip off the pipeline business, it only hurts itself because it owns the pipeline business.

This, then, is the essence of opportunism-based explanations of when vertical integration creates value:
transaction-specific investments make parties to an exchange vulnerable to opportunism, and vertical
integration solves this vulnerability problem. Using language developed in Chapter 2 , this approach
suggests that vertical integration is valuable when it reduces threats from a firm’s powerful suppliers or
powerful buyers due to any transaction-specific investments a firm has made.
Vertical Integration and Firm Capabilities
A second approach to vertical integration decisions focuses on a firm’s capabilities and its ability to
generate sustained competitive advantages.6 This approach has two broad implications. First, it
suggests that firms should vertically integrate into those business activities where they possess
valuable, rare, and costly-to-imitate resources and capabilities. This way, firms can appropriate at least
some of the profits that using these capabilities to exploit environmental opportunities will create.
Second, this approach also suggests that firms should not vertically integrate into business activities
where they do not possess the resources necessary to gain competitive advantages. Such vertical
integration decisions would not be a source of profits to a firm, because they do not possess any of the
valuable, rare, or costly-to-imitate resources needed to gain competitive advantages in these business
activities. Indeed, to the extent that some other firms have competitive advantages in these business
activities, vertically integrating into them could put a firm at a competitive disadvantage.

This, then, is the essence of the capabilities approach to vertical integration: if a firm possesses
valuable, rare, and costly-to-imitate resources in a business activity, it should vertically integrate into that
activity; otherwise, no vertical integration. This perspective can sometimes lead to vertical integration
decisions that conflict with decisions derived from opportunism-based explanations of vertical
integration.


Consider, for example, firms acting as suppliers to Wal-Mart. Wal-Mart has a huge competitive
advantage in the discount retail industry. In principle, firms that sell to Wal-Mart could vertically integrate
forward into the discount retail market to sell their own products. That is, these firms could begin to
compete against Wal-Mart. However, such efforts are not likely to be a source of competitive advantage
for these firms. Wal-Mart’s resources and capabilities are just too extensive and costly to imitate for
most of these suppliers. So, instead of forward vertical integration, most of these firms sell their products
through Wal-Mart.


Of course, the problem is that by relying so much on Wal-Mart, these firms are making significant
transaction-specific investments. If they stop selling to Wal-Mart, they may go out of business. However,
this decision will have a limited impact on Wal-Mart. Wal-Mart can go to any number of suppliers around
the world that are willing to replace this failed firm. So, Wal-Mart’s suppliers are at risk of opportunism in
this exchange, and indeed, it is well-known that Wal-Mart can squeeze its suppliers, in terms of the
quality of the products it purchases, the price at which it purchases them, and the way in which these
products are delivered.


So, the tension between these two approaches to vertical integration becomes clear. Concerns about
opportunism suggest that Wal-Mart’s suppliers should vertically integrate forward. Concerns about
having a competitive disadvantage if they do vertically integrate forward suggest that Wal-Mart’s
suppliers should not vertically integrate. So, should they or shouldn’t they vertically integrate?
Not many of Wal-Mart’s suppliers could resolve this difficult problem. Most do not vertically integrate into
the discount retail industry. However, they try to reduce the level of transaction-specific investment they
make with Wal-Mart by supplying other discount retailers, both in the United States and abroad. They
also try to use their special capabilities to differentiate their products so much that Wal-Mart’s customers
insist on Wal-Mart selling these products. And these firms constantly search for cheaper ways to make
and distribute higher-quality products.
Vertical Integration and Flexibility
A third perspective on vertical integration builds on the concept of flexibility first introduced in Chapter
6 . As described in that chapter, flexibility refers to how costly it is for a firm to alter its strategic
and organizational decisions. Flexibility is high when the cost of changing strategic choices is low;
flexibility is low when the cost of changing strategic choices is high.


So, which is less flexible—vertical integration or no vertical integration? Research suggests that, in
general, vertically integrating is less flexible than not vertically integrating.7 This is because once a firm
has vertically integrated, it has committed its organizational structure, its management controls, and its
compensation policies to a particular vertically integrated way of doing business. Undoing this decision
often means changing these aspects of an organization.


Suppose, for example, that a vertically integrated firm decides to get out of a particular business. To do
so, the firm must sell or close its factories (actions that can adversely affect both the employees it must
lay off and those that remain), alter its supply relationships, hurt customers that have come to rely on it
as a partner, and change its internal reporting structure. In contrast, if a non-vertically integrated firm
decides to get out of a business, it simply stops. It cancels whatever contracts it might have had in place
and ceases operations in that business. The cost of exiting a non-vertically integrated business is
generally much lower than the cost of exiting a vertically integrated business.


Of course, flexibility is not always valuable. In fact, as was described in Chapter 6     , flexibility is only
valuable when the decision-making setting a firm is facing is uncertain. Recall that a decision-making
setting is uncertain when both the possible outcomes of a decision and their probability cannot be
known when a decision is being made. In such settings, less vertical integration is better than more
vertical integration. This is because vertically integrating into an exchange is less flexible than not
vertically integrating into an exchange. If an exchange turns out not to be valuable, it is usually costlier
for firms that have vertically integrated into an exchange to exit that exchange compared with those that
have not vertically integrated.


Consider, for example, a pharmaceutical firm making investments in biotechnology. The outcome of
biotechnology research is very uncertain. If a pharmaceutical company vertically integrates into a
particular type of biotechnology research by hiring particular types of scientists, building an expensive
laboratory, and developing the other skills necessary to do this particular type of biotechnology research,
it has made a very large investment. Now suppose that this research turns out not to be profitable. This
firm has made huge investments that now have little value. As important, it has failed to make
investments in other areas of biotechnology that could turn out to be valuable.


A flexibility-based approach to vertical integration suggests that rather than vertically integrating into a
business activity whose value is highly uncertain, firms should not vertically integrate but should instead
form a strategic alliance to manage this exchange. A strategic alliance is more flexible than vertical
integration but still gives a firm enough information about an exchange to estimate its value over time.
An alliance has a second advantage in this setting. The downside risks associated with investing in a
strategic alliance are known and fixed. They equal the cost of creating and maintaining the alliance. If an
uncertain investment turns out not to be valuable, parties to this alliance know the maximum amount
they can lose—an amount equal to the cost of creating and maintaining the alliance. On the other hand,
if this exchange turns out to be very valuable, then maintaining an alliance can give a firm access to this
huge upside potential. This partially explains why, to the extent that U.S. pharmaceutical firms outsource
basic R&D to Indian partners, they do so through joint ventures. These aspects of strategic alliances will
be discussed in more detail in Chapter 11    .


Each of these explanations of vertical integration has received significant empirical attention in the
academic literature. Some of these studies are described in the Research Made Relevant feature.
Applying the Theories to the Management of Call
Centers
One of the most common business functions to be outsourced, and even offshored, is a firm’s call
center activities. So, what do these three theories say about how call centers should be managed: when
should they be brought within the boundaries of a firm, and when should they be outsourced? Each of
these theories will be discussed in turn.
Transaction-Specific Investments and Managing Call Centers
When applying opportunism-based explanations of vertical integration, start by looking for actual or
potential transaction-specific investments that would need to be made to complete an exchange. High
levels of such investments suggest the need for vertical integration; low levels of such investments
suggest that vertically integrating this exchange is not necessary.


When the call-center approach to providing customer service was first developed in the 1980s, it
required substantial levels of transaction-specific investment. First, a great deal of special-purpose
equipment had to be purchased. And although this equipment could be used for any call center, it had
little value except within a call center. Thus, this equipment was an example of a somewhat specific
investment.


More important, to provide service in call centers, call center employees would have to be fully aware of
all the problems likely to emerge with the use of a firm’s products. This required a firm to study its
products very closely and then to train call center employees to be able to respond to any problems
customers might have. This training was sometimes very complex and time-consuming and represented
substantial transaction-specific investments on the part of call center employees. Only employees that
worked full time for a large corporation—where job security was usually high for productive workers—
would be willing to make these kinds of specific investments. Thus, vertical integration into call center
management made a great deal of sense.
R E S E A R C H M A D E R E L E VA N T




Empirical Tests of Theories of Vertical Integration


Of the three explanations of vertical integration discussed here, opportunism-based explanations
are the oldest and thus have received the greatest empirical support. One review of this empirical
work, by Professor Joe Mahoney of the University of Illinois, observes that the core assertion of
this approach—that high levels of transaction-specific investment lead to higher levels of vertical
integration—receives consistent empirical support.

More recent work has begun to examine the trade-offs among these three explanations of
vertical integration by examining their effects on vertical integration simultaneously. For example,
   Professor Tim Folta of Purdue University examined the opportunism and flexibility approaches to
   vertical integration simultaneously. His results show that the basic assertion of the opportunism
   approach still holds. However, when he incorporates uncertainty into his empirical analysis, he
   finds that firms engage in less vertical integration than predicted by opportunism by itself. In other
   words, firms apparently worry not only about transaction-specific investments when they make
   vertical integration choices; they also worry about how costly it is to reverse those investments in
   the face of high uncertainty.

   An even more recent study by Michael Leiblein from The Ohio State University and Doug Miller
   from the University of Illinois examines all three of these explanations of vertical integration
   simultaneously. These authors studied vertical integration decisions in the semiconductor
   manufacturing industry and found that all three explanations hold. That is, firms in this industry
   worry about transaction-specific investment, the capabilities they possess, the capabilities they
   would like to possess, and the uncertainty of the markets within which they operate when they
   make vertical integration choices.8


However, as information technology improved, firms found it was possible to train call center employees
much faster. Now, all call center employees had to do was follow scripts that were prewritten and
preloaded onto their computers. By asking a few scripted questions, call center employees could
diagnose most problems. In addition, solutions to those problems were also included on an employee’s
computer. Only really unusual problems could not be handled by employees working off these computer
scripts. Because the level of specific investment required to use these scripts was much lower,
employees were willing to work for companies without the job security usually associated with large
firms. Indeed, call centers became good part-time and temporary employment opportunities. Because
the level of specific investment required to work in these call centers was much lower, not vertically
integrating into call center management made a great deal of sense.
Capabilities and Managing Call Centers
In opportunism-based explanations of vertical integration, you start by looking for transaction-specific
investments and then make vertical integration decisions based on these investments. In capability-
based approaches, you start by looking for valuable, rare, and costly-to-imitate resources and
capabilities and then make vertical integration decisions appropriately.


In the early days of call center management, how well a firm operated its call centers could actually be a
source of competitive advantage. During this period, the technology was new, and the training required
to answer a customer’s questions was extensive. Firms that developed special capabilities in managing
these processes could gain competitive advantages and thus would vertically integrate into call center
management.

However, over time, as more and more call center management suppliers were created and as the
technology and training required to staff a call center became more widely available, the ability of a call
center to be a source of competitive advantage for a firm dropped. That is, the ability to manage a call
center was still valuable, but it was no longer rare or costly to imitate. In this setting, it is not surprising to
see firms getting out of the call center management business, outsourcing this business to low-cost
specialist firms, and focusing on those business functions where they might be able to gain a sustained
competitive advantage.


All of this assumed, of course, that providing high quality on-line service to customers was not a source
of competitive advantage. Over the last few years, some firms have found that outsourcing call centers
has reduced their ability to address the service needs of some of their customers—particularly those
with complicated or unusual problems. To be more effective in providing service to these customers,
some firms have actually re-vertically integrated at least some of the call center operations. They do so
because they believe providing high quality service can be a source of at least a temporary competitive
advantage. A detailed example of Dell Computer re-vertically integrating some of its call center
operations will be discussed later in this chapter.9
Flexibility and Managing Call Centers
Opportunism logic suggests starting with a search for transaction-specific investments; capabilities logic
suggests starting with a search for valuable, rare, and costly-to-imitate resources and capabilities.
Flexibility logic suggests starting by looking for sources of uncertainty in an exchange.


One of the biggest uncertainties in providing customer service through call centers is the question of
whether the people staffing the phones actually help a firm’s customers. This is a particularly troubling
concern for firms that are selling complex products that can have numerous types of problems. A variety
of technological solutions have been developed to try to address this uncertainty. But, if a firm vertically
integrates into the call center management business, it is committing to a particular technological
solution. This solution may not work, or it may not work as well as some other solutions.

In the face of this uncertainty, maintaining relationships with several different call-center management
companies—each of whom have adopted different technological solutions to the problem of how to use
call center employees to assist customers who are using very complex products—gives a firm
technological flexibility that it would not otherwise have. Once a superior solution is identified, then a firm
no longer needs this flexibility and may choose to vertically integrate into call center management or not,
depending on opportunism and capabilities considerations.
Integrating Different Theories of Vertical Integration
At first glance, having three different explanations about how vertical integration can create value seems
troubling. After all, won’t these explanations sometimes contradict each other?


The answer to this question is yes. We have already seen such a contradiction in the case of
opportunism and capabilities explanations of whether Wal-Mart suppliers should forward vertically
integrate into the discount retail industry.


However, more often than not, these three explanations are complementary in nature. That is, each
approach generally leads to the same conclusion about how a firm should vertically integrate. Moreover,
sometimes it is simply easier to apply one of these approaches to evaluate a firm’s vertical integration
choices than the other two. Having a “tool kit” that includes three explanations of vertical integration
enables the analyst to choose the approach that is most likely to be a source of insight in a particular
situation.

Even when these explanations make contradictory assertions about vertical integration, having multiple
approaches can be helpful. In this context, having multiple explanations can highlight the trade-offs that
a firm is making when choosing its vertical integration strategy. Thus, for example, if opportunism-based
explanations suggest that vertical integration is necessary because of high transaction-specific
investments, capabilities-based explanations caution about the cost of developing the resources and
capabilities necessary to vertically integrate and flexibility concerns caution about the risks that
committing to vertical integration imply, and the costs and benefits of whatever vertical integration
decision is ultimately made can be understood very clearly.

Overall, having three explanations of vertical integration has several advantages for those looking to
analyze the vertical integration choices of real firms. Of course, applying these explanations can create
important ethical dilemmas for a firm, especially when it becomes clear that a firm needs to become less
vertically integrated than it has historically been. Some of these dilemmas are discussed in the Ethics
and Strategy feature.
Vertical Integration and Sustained
Competitive Advantage
Objective 8.4 Describe conditions under which vertical integration
              can be a source of sustained competitive advantage.


Of course, for vertical integration to be a source of sustained
competitive advantage, not only must it be valuable (because it
responds to threats of opportunism; enables a firm to exploit its own
or other firms’ valuable, rare, and costly-to-imitate resources; or
gives a firm flexibility), it must also be rare and costly to imitate, and
a firm must be organized to implement it correctly.
The Rarity of Vertical Integration
A firm’s vertical integration strategy is rare when few competing firms
can create value by vertically integrating in the same way. A firm’s
vertical integration strategy can be rare because it is one of a small
number of competing firms that can vertically integrate efficiently or
because it is one of a small number of firms that is able to adopt a
non-vertically integrated approach to managing an exchange.
Rare Vertical Integration
A firm may be able to create value through vertical integration, when
most of its competitors are not able to, for at least three reasons. Not
surprisingly, these reasons parallel the three explanations of vertical
integration presented in this chapter.
Rare Transaction-Specific Investment and
Vertical Integration
First, a firm may have developed a new technology or a new
approach to doing business that requires its business partners to
make substantial transaction-specific investments. Firms that
engage in these activities will find it in their self-interest to vertically
integrate, whereas firms that have not engaged in these activities will
not find it in their self-interest to vertically integrate. If these activities
are rare and costly to imitate, they can be a source of competitive
advantage for a vertically integrating firm.

For example, many firms in the computer industry are offshoring
some of their key business functions. However, one firm—Dell—
brought one of these functions—its technical call center for business
customers—back from India and re-vertically integrated it into its
business function.10 The problems faced by corporate customers are
typically much more complicated than those faced by individual
consumers. Thus, it is much more difficult to provide call center
employees with the training they need to address corporate
problems. Moreover, because corporate technologies change more
rapidly than many consumer technologies, keeping call-center
employees up to date on how to service corporate customers is also
more complicated than having call center employees provide
services to its non-corporate customers. Because Dell needs the
people staffing its corporate call centers to make substantial specific
investments in its technology and in understanding its customers, it
has found it necessary to bring these individuals within the
boundaries of the firm and to re-vertically integrate the operation of
this particular type of service center.
E T H I C S A N D S T R AT E G Y
The Ethics of Outsourcing


Imagine a firm that has successfully operated in a vertically
integrated manner for decades. Employees come to work,
they know their jobs, they know how to work together
effectively, they know where to park. The job is not just the
economic center of their lives; it has become the social center
as well. Most of their friends work in the same company, in
the same function, as they do. The future appears to be much
as the past—stable employment and effective work, all aiming
toward a comfortable and well-planned retirement. And then
the firm adopts a new outsourcing strategy. It changes its
vertical integration strategy by becoming less vertically
integrated and purchasing services from outside suppliers
that it used to obtain internally.

The economics of outsourcing can be compelling.
Outsourcing can help firms reduce costs and focus their
efforts on those business functions that are central to their
competitive advantage. When done well, outsourcing creates
value—value that firms can share with their owners, their
stockholders.

Indeed, outsourcing is becoming a trend in business. Some
observers predict that by 2015, an additional 3.3 million jobs
in the United States will be outsourced, many to operations
overseas.
   But what of the employees whose jobs are taken away? What
   of their lifetime of commitment, their steady and reliable
   work? What of their stable and secure retirement?
   Outsourcing often devastates lives, even as it creates
   economic value. Of course, some firms go out of their way to
   soften the impact of outsourcing on their employees. Those
   that are near retirement age are often given an opportunity to
   retire early. Others receive severance payments in
   recognition of their years of service. Other firms hire
   “outplacement” companies—firms that specialize in placing
   suddenly unemployed people in new jobs and new careers.

   But all these efforts to soften the blow do not make the blow
   go away. Many employees assume that they have an implicit
   contract with the firms they work for. That contract is: “As long
   as I do my job well, I will have a job.” That contract is being
   replaced with: “As long as a firm wants to employ me, I will
   have a job.” In such a world, it is not surprising that many
   employees now look first to maintain their employability in
   their current job—by receiving additional training and
   experiences that might be valuable at numerous other
   employers—and are concerned less with what they can do to
   improve the performance of the firm they work for.11


If Dell, through this vertical integration decision, can satisfy its
customers more effectively than its competitors and if the cost of
managing this call center is not too high, then this vertical integration
decision is both valuable and rare and thus a source of at least a
temporary competitive advantage for Dell.
Rare Capabilities and Vertical Integration
A firm such as Dell might also conclude that it has unusual skills,
either in operating a call center or in providing the training that is
needed to staff certain kinds of call centers. If those capabilities are
valuable and rare, then vertically integrating into businesses that
exploit these capabilities can enable a firm to gain at least a
temporary competitive advantage. Indeed, the belief that a firm
possesses valuable and rare capabilities is often a justification for
rare vertical integration decisions in an industry.
Rare Uncertainty and Vertical Integration
Finally, a firm may be able to gain an advantage from vertically
integrating when it resolves some uncertainty it faces sooner than its
competition. Suppose, for example, that several firms in an industry
all begin investing in a very uncertain technology. Flexibility logic
suggests that, to the extent possible, these firms will prefer to not
vertically integrate into the manufacturing of this technology until its
designs and features stabilize and market demand for this
technology is well established.

However, imagine that one of these firms can resolve these
uncertainties before any other firm. This firm no longer needs to
retain the flexibility that is so valuable under conditions of
uncertainty. Instead, this firm might be able to, say, design special-
purpose machines that can efficiently manufacture this technology.
Such machines are not flexible, but they can be very efficient.


Of course, outside vendors would have to make substantial
transaction-specific investments to use these machines. Outside
vendors may be reluctant to make these investments. In this setting,
this firm may find it necessary to vertically integrate to be able to use
its machines to produce this technology. Thus, this firm, by resolving
uncertainty faster than its competitors, can gain some of the
advantages of vertical integration sooner than its competitors.
Whereas the competition is still focusing on flexibility in the face of
uncertainty, this firm gets to focus on production efficiency in meeting
customers’ product demands. This can obviously be a source of
competitive advantage.


Rare Vertical Dis-Integration
Each of the examples of vertical integration and competitive
advantage described so far has focused on a firm’s ability to
vertically integrate to create competitive advantage. However, firms
can also gain competitive advantages through their decisions to
vertically dis-integrate, that is, through the decision to outsource an
activity that used to be within the boundaries of the firm. Whenever a
firm is among the first in its industry to conclude that the level of
specific investment required to manage an economic exchange is no
longer high, or that a particular exchange is no longer rare or costly
to imitate, or that the level of uncertainty about the value of an
exchange has increased, it may be among the first in its industry to
vertically dis-integrate this exchange. Such activities, to the extent
they are valuable, will be rare and, thus, a source of at least a
temporary competitive advantage.
The Imitability of Vertical
Integration
The extent to which these rare vertical integration decisions can be
sources of sustained competitive advantage depends, as always, on
the imitability of the rare resources that give a firm at least a
temporary competitive advantage. Both direct duplication and
substitution can be used to imitate another firm’s valuable and rare
vertical integration choices.
Direct Duplication of Vertical Integration
Direct duplication occurs when competitors develop or obtain the
resources and capabilities that enable another firm to implement a
valuable and rare vertical integration strategy. To the extent that
these resources and capabilities are path dependent, socially
complex, or causally ambiguous, they may be immune from direct
duplication and, thus, a source of sustained competitive advantage.

With respect to offshoring business functions, it seems that the very
popularity of this strategy suggests that it is highly imitable. Indeed,
this strategy is becoming so common that firms that move in the
other direction by vertically integrating a call center and managing it
in the United States (like Dell) make news.


But the fact that many firms are implementing this strategy does not
mean that they are all equally successful in doing so. These
differences in performance may reflect some subtle and complex
capabilities that some of these outsourcing firms possess but others
do not. These are the kinds of resources and capabilities that may
be sources of sustained competitive advantage.

Some of the resources that might enable a firm to implement a
valuable and rare vertical integration strategy may not be susceptible
to direct duplication. These might include a firm’s ability to analyze
the attributes of its economic exchanges and its ability to conceive
and implement vertical integration strategies. Both of these
capabilities may be socially complex and path dependent—built up
over years of experience.


Substitutes for Vertical Integration
The major substitute for vertical integration—strategic alliances—is
the major topic of Chapter 11     . An analysis of how strategic
alliances can substitute for vertical integration will be delayed until
then.
Organizing to Implement Vertical
Integration
Objective 8.5 Describe how the functional organization structure,
              management controls, and compensation policies
              are used to implement vertical integration.

Organizing to implement vertical integration involves the same
organizing tools as implementing any business or corporate strategy:
organizational structure, management controls, and compensation
policies.
Organizational Structure and
Implementing Vertical Integration
The organizational structure that is used to implement the first two
business level strategies discussed in this book—cost leadership
and product differentiation—is also used to implement a vertical
integration strategy. This is the functional, or U-form, structure.
Indeed, each of the exchanges included within the boundaries of a
firm because vertical integration decisions are incorporated into one
of the functions in a functional organizational structure. Decisions
about which manufacturing activities to vertically integrate into
determine the range and responsibilities of the manufacturing
function within a functionally organized firm; decisions about which
marketing activities to vertically integrate into determine the range
and responsibilities of the marketing function within a functionally
organized firm; and so forth. Thus, in an important sense, vertical
integration decisions made by a firm determine the structure of a
functionally organized firm.


The chief executive officer (CEO) in this vertically integrated,
functionally organized firm has the same two responsibilities that
were first identified in Chapter 4 : strategy formulation and
strategy implementation. However, these two responsibilities take on
added dimensions when implementing vertical integration decisions.
In particular, although the CEO must take the lead in making
decisions about whether each individual function should be vertically
integrated into a firm, this person must also work to resolve conflicts
that naturally arise between vertically integrated functions.
Resolving Functional Conflicts in a
Vertically Integrated Firm
From a CEO’s perspective, coordinating functional specialists to
implement a vertical integration strategy almost always involves
conflict resolution. Conflicts among functional managers in a U-form
organization are both expected and normal. Indeed, if there is no
conflict among certain functional managers in a U-form organization,
then some of these managers probably are not doing their jobs. The
task facing the CEO is not to pretend this conflict does not exist or to
ignore it, but to manage it in a way that facilitates strategy
implementation.


Consider, for example, the relationship between manufacturing and
sales managers. Typically, manufacturing managers prefer to
manufacture a single product with long production runs. Sales
managers, however, generally prefer to sell numerous customized
products. Manufacturing managers generally do not like large
inventories of finished products; sales managers generally prefer
large inventories of finished products that facilitate rapid deliveries to
customers. If these various interests of manufacturing and sales
managers do not, at least sometimes, come into conflict in a
vertically integrated U-form organization, then the manufacturing
manager is not focusing enough on cost reduction and quality
improvement in manufacturing or the sales manager is not focusing
enough on meeting customer needs in a timely way or both.
Numerous other conflicts arise among functional managers in a
vertically integrated U-form organization. Accountants often focus on
maximizing managerial accountability and close analysis of costs;
research and development managers may fear that such accounting
practices will interfere with innovation and creativity. Finance
managers often focus on the relationship between a firm and its
external capital markets; human resource managers are more
concerned with the relationship between a firm and external labor
markets.

In this context, the CEO’s job is to help resolve conflicts in ways that
facilitate the implementation of the firm’s strategy. Functional
managers do not have to “like” one another. However, if a firm’s
vertical integration strategy is correct, the reason that a function has
been included within the boundaries of a firm is that this decision
creates value for the firm. Allowing functional conflicts to get in the
way of taking advantage of each of the functions within a firm’s
boundaries can destroy this potential value.
Management Controls and
Implementing Vertical Integration
Although having the correct organizational structure is important for
firms implementing their vertical integration strategies, that structure
must be supported by a variety of management control processes.
Among the most important of these processes are the budgeting
process and the management committee oversight process, which
can also help CEOs resolve the functional conflicts that are common
within vertically integrated firms.
The Budgeting Process
Budgeting is one of the most important control mechanisms available
to CEOs in vertically integrated U-form organizations. Indeed, in
most U-form companies, enormous management effort goes into the
creation of budgets and the evaluation of performance relative to
budgets. Budgets are developed for costs, revenues, and a variety of
other activities performed by a firm’s functional managers. Often,
managerial compensation and promotion opportunities depend on
the ability of a manager to meet budget expectations.


Although budgets are an important control tool, they can also have
unintended negative consequences. For example, the use of
budgets can lead functional managers to overemphasize short-term
behavior that is easy to measure and underemphasize longer-term
behavior that is more difficult to measure. Thus, for example, the
strategically correct thing for a functional manager to do might be to
increase expenditures for maintenance and management training,
thereby ensuring that the function will have both the technology and
the skilled people needed to do the job in the future. An
overemphasis on meeting current budget requirements, however,
might lead this manager to delay maintenance and training
expenditures. By meeting short-term budgetary demands, this
manager may be sacrificing the long-term viability of this function,
compromising the long-term viability of the firm.


CEOs can do a variety of things to counter the “short-termism”
effects of the budgeting process. For example, research suggests
that evaluating a functional manager’s performance relative to
budgets can be an effective control device when: (1) the process
used in developing budgets is open and participative; (2) the process
reflects the economic reality facing functional managers and the firm;
and (3) quantitative evaluations of a functional manager’s
performance are augmented by qualitative evaluations of that
performance. Adopting an open and participative process for setting
budgets helps ensure that budget targets are realistic and that
functional managers understand and accept them. Including
qualitative criteria for evaluation reduces the chances that functional
managers will engage in behaviors that are very harmful in the long
run but enable them to make budget in the short run.12
The Management Committee Oversight
Process
In addition to budgets, vertically integrated U-form organizations can
use various internal management committees as management
control devices. Two particularly common internal management
committees are the executive committee        and the operations
committee      (although these committees have many different
names in different organizations).

The executive committee in a U-form organization typically consists
of the CEO and two or three key functional senior managers. It
normally meets weekly and reviews the performance of the firm on a
short-term basis. Functions represented on this committee generally
include accounting, legal, and other functions (such as
manufacturing or sales) that are most central to the firm’s short-term
business success. The fundamental purpose of the executive
committee is to track the short-term performance of the firm, to note
and correct any budget variances for functional managers, and to
respond to any crises that might emerge. Obviously, the executive
committee can help avoid many functional conflicts in a vertically
integrated firm before they arise.


In addition to the executive committee, another group of managers
meets regularly to help control the operations of the firm. Often
called the operations committee, this committee typically meets
monthly and usually consists of the CEO and each of the heads of
the functional areas included in the firm. The executive committee is
a subset of the operations committee.

The primary objective of the operations committee is to track firm
performance over time intervals slightly longer than the weekly
interval of primary interest to the executive committee and to monitor
longer-term strategic investments and activities. Such investments
might include plant expansions, the introduction of new products,
and the implementation of cost-reduction or quality improvement
programs. The operations committee provides a forum in which
senior functional managers can come together to share concerns
and opportunities and to coordinate efforts to implement strategies.
Obviously, the operations committee can help resolve functional
conflicts in a vertically integrated firm after they arise.


In addition to these two standing committees, various other
committees and task forces can be organized within the U-form
organization to manage specific projects and tasks. These additional
groups are typically chaired by a member of the executive or
operations committee and report to one or both of these standing
committees, as warranted.
Compensation in Implementing
Vertical Integration Strategies
Organizational structure and management control systems can have
an important impact on the ability of a firm to implement its vertical
integration strategy. However, a firm’s compensation policies can be
important as well.


We have already seen how compensation can play a role in
implementing cost leadership and product differentiation and how
compensation can be tied to budgets to help implement vertical
integration. However, the three explanations of vertical
integration presented in this chapter have important compensation
implications as well. We will first discuss the compensation
challenges these three explanations suggest and then discuss ways
these challenges can be addressed.
Opportunism-Based Vertical Integration
and Compensation Policy
Opportunism-based approaches to vertical integration suggest that
employees who make firm-specific investments in their jobs will often
be able to create more value for a firm than employees who do not.
Firm-specific investments are a type of transaction-specific
investment. Whereas transaction-specific investments are
investments that have more value in a particular exchange than in
alternative exchanges, firm-specific investments        are
investments made by employees that have more value in a particular
firm than in alternative firms.13


Examples of firm-specific investments include an employee’s
understanding of a particular firm’s culture, his or her personal
relationships with others in the firm, and an employee’s knowledge
about a firm’s unique business processes. All this knowledge can be
used by an employee to create a great deal of value in a firm.
However, this knowledge has almost no value in other firms. The
effort to create this knowledge is thus a firm-specific investment.


Despite the value that an employee’s firm-specific investments can
create, opportunism-based explanations of vertical integration
suggest that employees will often be reluctant to make these
investments because, once they do, they become vulnerable in their
exchange with this firm. For example, an employee who has made
very significant firm-specific investments may not be able to quit and
go to work for another company, even if he or she is passed over for
promotion, does not receive a raise, or is even actively discriminated
against. This is because by quitting this firm, this employee loses all
the investment he or she made in this particular firm. Because this
employee has few employment options other than his or her current
firm, this firm can treat this employee badly and the employee can do
little about it. Therefore, employees are often reluctant to make firm-
specific investments.

But the firm needs its employees to make such investments if it is to
realize its full economic potential. Thus, one of the tasks of
compensation policy is to create incentives for employees whose
firm-specific investments could create great value to actually make
those investments.
Capabilities and Compensation
Capability explanations of vertical integration also acknowledge the
importance of firm-specific investments in creating value for a firm.
Indeed, many of the valuable, rare, and costly-to-imitate resources
and capabilities that can exist in a firm are a manifestation of firm-
specific investments made by a firm’s employees. However, whereas
opportunism explanations of vertical integration tend to focus on
firm-specific investments made by individual employees, capabilities
explanations tend to focus on firm-specific investments made by
groups of employees.14


In Chapter 3     , it was suggested that one of the reasons that a
firm’s valuable and rare resources may be costly to imitate is that
these resources are socially complex in nature. Socially complex
resources reflect the teamwork, cooperation, and culture that have
evolved within a firm—capabilities that can increase the value of a
firm significantly, but capabilities that other firms will often find costly
to imitate, at least in the short to medium term. Moreover, these are
capabilities that exist because several employees—not just a single
employee—have made specific investments in a firm.


From the point of view of designing a compensation policy,
capabilities analysis suggests that not only should a firm’s
compensation policy encourage employees whose firm-specific
investments could create value to actually make those investments;
it also recognizes that these investments will often be collective in
nature—that, for example, until all the members of a critical
management team make firm-specific commitments to that team,
that team’s ability to create and sustain competitive advantages will
be significantly limited.


Flexibility and Compensation
Flexibility explanations of vertical integration also have some
important implications for compensation. In particular, because the
creation of flexibility in a firm depends on employees being willing to
engage in activities that have fixed and known downside risks and
significant upside potential, it follows that compensation that has
fixed and known downside risks and significant upside potential
would encourage employees to choose and implement flexible
vertical integration strategies.
Compensation Alternatives
Table 8.1    lists several compensation alternatives and how they
are related to each of the three explanations of vertical
integration discussed in this chapter. Not surprisingly, opportunism-
based explanations suggest that compensation that focuses on
individual employees and how they can make firm-specific
investments will be important for firms implementing their vertical
integration strategies. Such individual compensation includes an
employee’s salary, cash bonuses based on individual performance,
and stock grants —or payments to employees in a firm’s stock—
based on individual performance.


Table 8.1 Types of Compensation and Approaches to Making
Vertical Integration Decisions
Capabilities explanations of vertical integration suggest that
compensation that focuses on groups of employees making firm-
specific investments in valuable, rare, and costly-to-imitate resources
and capabilities will be particularly important for firms implementing
vertical integration strategies. Such collective compensation includes
cash bonuses based on a firm’s overall performance and stock
grants based on a firm’s overall performance.


Finally, flexibility logic suggests that compensation that has a fixed
and known downside risk and significant upside potential is
important for firms implementing vertical integration strategies.
Stock options,     whereby employees are given the right, but not
the obligation, to purchase stock at predetermined prices, are a form
of compensation that has these characteristics. Stock options can be
granted based on an individual employee’s performance or the
performance of the firm as a whole.

The task facing CEOs looking to implement a vertical integration
strategy through compensation policy is to determine what kinds of
employee behavior they need to have for this strategy to create
sustained competitive advantages and then to use the appropriate
compensation policy. Not surprisingly, most CEOs find that all three
explanations of vertical integration are important in their decision
making. Thus, not surprisingly, many firms adopt compensation
policies that feature a mix of the compensation policies listed in
Table 6.1   . Most firms use both individual and corporate-wide
compensation schemes along with salaries, cash bonuses, stock
grants, and stock options for employees who have the greatest
impact on a firm’s overall performance.
Summary
Vertical integration is defined as the number of stages in an
industry’s value chain that a firm has brought within its boundaries.
Forward vertical integration brings a firm closer to its ultimate
customer; backward vertical integration brings a firm closer to the
sources of its raw materials. In making vertical integration decisions
for a particular business activity, firms can choose to be not vertically
integrated, somewhat vertically integrated, or vertically integrated.

Vertical integration can create value in three different ways: first, it
can reduce opportunistic threats from a firm’s buyers and suppliers
due to transaction-specific investments the firm may have made. A
transaction-specific investment is an investment that has more value
in a particular exchange than in any alternative exchanges. Second,
vertical integration can create value by enabling a firm to exploit its
valuable, rare, and costly-to-imitate resources and capabilities. Firms
should vertically integrate into activities in which they enjoy such
advantages and should not vertically integrate into other activities.
Third, vertical integration typically only creates value under
conditions of low uncertainty. Under high uncertainty, vertical
integration can commit a firm to a costly-to-reverse course of action
and the flexibility of a non-vertically integrated approach may be
preferred.
Often, all three approaches to vertical integration will generate
similar conclusions. However, even when they suggest different
vertical integration strategies, they can still be helpful to
management.


The ability of valuable vertical integration strategies to generate a
sustained competitive advantage depends on how rare and costly to
imitate the strategies are. Vertical integration strategies can be rare
in two ways: (1) when a firm is vertically integrated while most
competing firms are not vertically integrated; and (2) when a firm is
not vertically integrated while most competing firms are. These rare
vertical integration strategies are possible when firms vary in the
extent to which the strategies they pursue require transaction-
specific investments; they vary in the resources and capabilities they
control; or they vary in the level of uncertainty they face.


The ability to directly duplicate a firm’s vertical integration strategies
depends on how costly it is to directly duplicate the resources and
capabilities that enable a firm to pursue these strategies. The closest
substitute for vertical integration—strategic alliances—is discussed
in more detail in Chapter 11 .


Organizing to implement vertical integration depends on a firm’s
organizational structure, its management controls, and its
compensation policies. The organizational structure most commonly
used to implement vertical integration is the functional, or U-form,
organization, which involves cost leadership and product
differentiation strategies. In a vertically integrated U-form
organization, the CEO must focus not only on deciding which
functions to vertically integrate into, but also on how to resolve
conflicts that inevitably arise in a functionally organized vertically
integrated firm. Two management controls that can be used to help
implement vertical integration strategies and resolve these functional
conflicts are the budgeting process and management oversight
committees.


Each of the three explanations of vertical integration suggests
different kinds of compensation policies that a firm looking to
implement vertical integration should pursue. Opportunism-based
explanations suggest individual-based compensation—including
salaries and cash bonus and stock grants based on individual
performance; capabilities-based explanations suggest group-based
compensation—including cash bonuses and stock grants based on
corporate or group performance; and flexibility-based explanations
suggest flexible compensation—including stock options based on
individual, group, or corporate performance. Because all three
approaches to vertical integration are often operating in a firm, it is
not surprising that many firms employ all these devices in
compensating employees whose actions are likely to have a
significant impact on firm performance.
MyLab Management
Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management to
complete the problems marked with this icon .
Challenge Questions
   8.1. Some firms have engaged in backward vertical
   integration strategies to appropriate the economic profits that
   would have been earned by suppliers selling to them. How is
   this motivation for backward vertical integration related to the
   opportunism logic for vertical integration described in this
   chapter? (Hint: Compare the competitive conditions under
   which firms may earn economic profits to the competitive
   conditions under which firms will be motivated to avoid
   opportunism through vertical integration.)
   8.2. Recently, a home delivery shaving company, “Harry’s
   Razors” claimed it can sell higher-quality razors at a lower
   price because it owned the factory that makes the razors.
   What conditions must hold for this assertion to be true?
   8.3. How is buying a car (as opposed to leasing a car) like
   and unlike vertical integration decisions? Suppose you are
   about to purchase a used car. What kinds of threats do you
   face in this purchase and what can you do to protect yourself
   from the threats in this situation? Suppose you are about to
   purchase a new car. What kinds of threats do you face in this
   purchase and what can you do to protect yourself from the
   threats in this situation?
   8.4. What are the competitive implications for firms if they
   assume that all potential exchange partners cannot be
   trusted?
8.5. Common conflicts between sales and manufacturing are
mentioned in the text. What conflicts might exist between
other functional areas? Consider the following pairings:
research and development and manufacturing; finance and
manufacturing; marketing and sales; and accounting and
everyone else?
8.6. What could a CEO do to help resolve the conflicts found
between functional areas of the organization?
8.7. Under what conditions would you accept a lower-paying
job over a higher-paying one?
8.8. What implications does your accepting a lower-paying
job over a higher-paying one have for your potential
employer’s compensation policy?
Problem Set
  8.9. Which of the following two firms is more vertically
  integrated? How can you tell?
      a. Firm A has included manufacturing, sales, finance, and
         human resources within its boundaries and has
         outsourced legal and customer service.
      b. Firm B has included manufacturing, sales, legal, and
         customer service within its boundaries and has
         outsourced finance and human resources.

  8.10. What is the level of transaction-specific investment for
  each firm in the following transactions? Who in these
  transactions is at greater risk of being taken unfair advantage
  of?
      a. Firm I has built a plant right next door to Firm II. Firm
         I’s plant is worth $5 million if it supplies Firm II. It is
         worth $200,000 if it does not supply Firm II. Firm II has
         three alternative suppliers. If it receives supplies from
         Firm I, it is worth $10 million. If it does not receive
         supplies from Firm I, it is worth $9.8 million.
      b. Firm A has just purchased a new computer system that
         is only available from Firm B. Firm A has redesigned its
         entire production process around this new computer
         system. The old production process is worth $1 million;
         the new process is worth $12 million. Firm B has
      several hundred customers for its new computer
      system.
    c. Firm Alpha, a fast-food restaurant company, has a
       contract with Firm Beta, a movie studio. After
      negotiating with several other potential partners, Firm
      Alpha agreed to a contract that requires Firm Alpha to
      pay Firm Beta $5 million per year for the right to use
       characters from Firm Beta’s movies in its packaged
       meals for children. Demand for children’s movies has
       recently dropped.
    d. Firm I owns and runs a printing press. Firm J uses the
       services of a printing press. Historically, Firm I has sold
       its services to many customers. However, it was
       recently approached by Firm J to become its exclusive
       supplier of printing-press services. Currently, Firm I is
       worth $1 million. If it became the sole supplier to Firm
       J, it would be worth $8 million. To complete this deal,
       Firm I would have to stop supplying its current
      customers and modify its machines to meet Firm J’s
      needs. No other firm needs the same services as Firm
      J. Firm J contacted several other suppliers who said
      they would be willing to become a sole supplier for
      Firm J before deciding to propose this arrangement
      with Firm I.

8.11. In each of the following situations, would you
recommend vertical integration or no vertical integration?
Explain.
a. Firm A needs a new and unique technology for its
   product line. No substitute technologies are available.
   Should Firm A make this technology or buy it?
b. Firm I has been selling its products through a
  distributor for some time. It has become the market
  share leader. Unfortunately, this distributor has not
  been able to keep up with the evolving technology and
  customers are complaining. No alternative distributors
  are available. Should Firm I keep its current distributor,
   or should it begin distribution on its own?
c. Firm Alpha has manufactured its own products for
  years. Recently, however, one of these products has
  become more and more like a commodity. Several
  firms are now able to manufacture this product at the
  same price and quality as Firm Alpha. However, they
  do not have Firm Alpha’s brand name in the
  marketplace. Should Firm Alpha continue to
  manufacture this product, or should it outsource it to
  one of these other firms?
d. Firm I is convinced that a certain class of technologies
   holds real economic potential. However, it does not
  know, for sure, which particular version of this
  technology is going to dominate the market. There are
  eight competing versions of this technology currently,
  but ultimately only one will dominate the market.
  Should Firm I invest in all eight of these technologies
  itself? Should it invest in just one of these
      technologies? Should it partner with other firms that are
      investing in these different technologies?




MyLab Management
Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management for
Auto-graded writing questions as well as the following
Assisted-graded writing questions:

         8.12. How can vertical integration create
      value by enabling a firm to retain its flexibility?
        8.13. Describe how both direct duplication
      and substitution can be used to imitate another
      firm’s valuable and rare vertical integration
      choices.
End Notes
1    M. Kripalani and P. Engardio (2003). “The rise of India.” BusinessWeek, December 8,
pp. 66+; K. J. Delaney (2003). “Outsourcing jobs—and workers—to India.” The Wall Street
Journal, October 13, pp. B1+; B. Eihhorn (2006). “A dragon in R&D.” BusinessWeek,
November 6, pp. 44+; P. Engardio and A. Weintraub (2008). “Outsourcing the drug
industry.” BusinessWeek, September 5, 2008, pp. 48–52; Peter Arnold, Inc. (2012). “Zydus,
Eli Lilly drug discovery deal off.” The Economic Times, January 2; J. Lamattina (2012). “It’s
time to stop outsourcing Pharma R&D to India.” www.forbes.com/sites/Johnlamattina/
2012/10/11/its-time-to-stop-outsourcing-pharma-RD-to-India. Accessed August 20,
2013.
2    A. Laffer (1969). “Vertical integration by corporations: 1929–1965.” Review of
Economics and Statistics, 51, pp. 91–93; I. Tucker and R. P. Wilder (1977). “Trends in
vertical integration in the U.S. manufacturing sector.” Journal of Industrial Economics, 26,
pp. 81–94; K. Harrigan (1986). “Matching vertical integration strategies to competitive
conditions.” Strategic Management Journal, 7, pp. 535–555.
3    Coase, R. (1937). “The nature of the firm.” Economica, 4, pp. 386–405.
4    This explanation of vertical integration is known as transactions cost economics in the
academic literature. See Williamson, O. (1975). Markets and hierarchies: Analysis and
antitrust implications. New York: Free Press; Williamson, O. (1985). The economic
institutions of capitalism. New York: Free Press; and Klein, B., R. Crawford, and A. Alchian.
(1978). “Vertical integration, appropriable rents, and the competitive contracting process.”
Journal of Law and Economics, 21, pp. 297–326.
5    Another option—forming an alliance between these two firms—is discussed in more
detail in Chapter 9       .
6    This explanation of vertical integration is known as the capabilities-based theory of the
firm in the academic literature. It draws heavily from the resource-based view described in
Chapter 3        . See Barney, J. B. (1991). “Firm resources and sustained competitive
advantage.” Journal of Management, 17, pp. 99–120; Barney, J. B. (1999). “How a firm’s
capabilities affect boundary decisions.” Sloan Management Review, 40(3); and Conner, K.
R., and C. K. Prahalad. (1996). “A resource-based theory of the firm: Knowledge versus
opportunism.” Organization Science, 7, pp. 477–501.
7    This explanation of vertical integration is known as real-options theory in the academic
literature. See Kogut, B. (1991). “Joint ventures and the option to expand and acquire.”
Management Science, 37, pp. 19–33.
8
J. Mahoney (1992). “The choice of organizational form: Vertical financial ownership versus
other methods of vertical integration.” Strategic Management Journal, 13, pp. 559–584; T.
Folta (1998). “Governance and uncertainty: The trade-off between administrative control
and commitment.” Strategic Management Journal, 19, pp. 1007–1028; M. Leiblein and D.
Miller (2003). “An empirical examination of transaction-and firm-level influences on the
vertical boundaries of the firm.” Strategic Management Journal, 24(9), pp. 839–859.
9    Witsil, F. (2014). “Call center jobs increase as more return from overseas.” Detroit Free
Press, Aug 4, 2014. https://www.usatoday .com/story/money/business/2014/08/04/call-
center-jobs-overseas/13560107/. Accessed 8/31/2017.
10    Kripalani, M., and P. Engardio. (2003). “The rise of India.” BusinessWeek, December
8, pp. 66+.
11    S. Steele-Carlin (2003). “Outsourcing poised for growth in 2002.”
FreelanceJobsNews.com, October 20; (2003). “Who wins in off-shoring?”
McKinseyQuarterly.com, October 20.
12    See Gupta, A. K. (1987). “SBU strategies, corporate-SBU relations and SBU
effectiveness in strategy implementation.” Academy of Management Journal, 30(3), pp.
477–500.
13    Becker, G. S. (1993). Human capital: A theoretical and empirical analysis, with
special reference to education. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
14    >arney, J. B. (1991). “Firm resources and sustained competitive advantage.” Journal
of Management, 17, pp. 99–120.
Chapter 9 Corporate
Diversification
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to:


               9.1 Define corporate diversification and describe
               five types of corporate diversification.
               9.2 Specify the two conditions that a corporate
               diversification strategy must meet to create
               economic value.
                   a. Define the concept of “economies of scope”
                      and identify nine potential economies of scope
                      a diversified firm might try to exploit.
                   b. Identify which of these economies of scope a
                      firm’s outside equity investors can realize on
                      their own at low cost.


               9.3 Specify the circumstances under which a
               firm’s diversification strategy will be a source of
               sustained competitive advantage.
                  a. Explain which of the economies of scope
                     identified in this chapter are more likely to be
                     subject to low-cost imitation and which are
                      less likely to be subject to low-cost imitation.
                   b. Identify two potential substitutes for corporate
                      diversification.
MyLab Management
  Improve Your Grade!


If your instructor is using MyLab Management, visit
www.pearson.com/mylab/management for
simulations, tutorials, and end-of-chapter problems.
The Worldwide Leader
The breadth of ESPN’s diversification has even caught the
attention of Hollywood writers. In the 2004 movie Dodgeball:
A True Underdog Story, the championship game between the
underdog Average Joes and the bad guy Purple Cobras is
broadcast on the fictitious cable channel ESPN8. Also, known
as “the Ocho,” ESPN8’s theme is “If it’s almost a sport, we’ve
got it.”

Here’s the irony: ESPN has way more than eight networks
currently in operation.

ESPN was founded in 1979 by Bill and Scott Rasmussen after
the father and son duo was fired from positions with the New
England Whalers, a National Hockey League team now
playing in Raleigh, North Carolina. Their initial idea was to
rent satellite space to broadcast sports from Connecticut—the
University of Connecticut’s basketball games, Whaler’s
hockey games, and so forth. But they found that it was
cheaper to rent satellite space for 24 hours straight than to
rent space a few hours during the week, and thus a 24-hour
sports channel was born.

ESPN went on the air September 7, 1979. The first event
broadcast was a slow-pitch softball game. Initially, the network
broadcast sports that, at the time, were not widely known to
U.S. consumers—Australian rules football, Davis Cup tennis,
professional wrestling, minor league bowling. Early on, ESPN
also gained the rights to broadcast early rounds of the NCAA
basketball tournament. At the time, the major networks did not
broadcast these early round games, even though we now
know that some of these early games are among the most
exciting in the entire tournament.




Web Pix/Alamy Stock Photo




The longest-running ESPN program is, of course,
SportsCenter. Although the first SportsCenter contained no
highlights and a scheduled interview with the football coach at
the University of Colorado was interrupted by technical
difficulties, SportsCenter and its familiar theme have become
icons in American popular culture. The 50,000th episode of
SportsCenter was broadcast on September 13, 2012.

ESPN was “admitted” into the world of big-time sports in 1987
when it signed with the National Football League to broadcast
Sunday Night Football. Since then, ESPN has broadcast
Major League Baseball, the National Basketball Association,
and, at various times, the National Hockey League. These
professional sports have been augmented by college football,
basketball, and baseball games.

ESPN’s first expansion was modest—in 1993, it introduced
ESPN2. Originally, this station played nothing but rock music
and scrolled sports scores. Within a few months, however,
ESPN2 was broadcasting a full program of sports.

After this initial slow expansion, ESPN began to diversify its
businesses rapidly. In 1996, it added ESPN News (an all-
sports news channel); in 1997, it acquired a company and
opened ESPN Classics (this channel shows old sporting
events); and in 2005, it started ESPNU (a channel dedicated
to college athletics).

However, these five ESPN channels represent only a fraction
of ESPN’s diverse business interests. In 1998, ESPN opened
its first restaurant, the ESPN Zone. This chain has continued
to expand around the world. Also, in 1998, it started a
magazine to compete with the then-dominant Sports
Illustrated. Called ESPN The Magazine, it now has more than
2 million subscribers. In 2001, ESPN went into the
entertainment production business when it founded ESPN
Original Entertainment. In 2005, ESPN started ESPN
Deportes, a Spanish-language 24-hour sports channel. And,
in 2006, it founded ESPN on ABC, a company that manages
much of the sports content broadcast on ABC. (In 1984, ABC
purchased ESPN. Subsequently, ABC was purchased by
Capital Cities Entertainment, and most of Capital Cities
Entertainment was then sold to Walt Disney Corporation.
Currently, 80 percent of ESPN is owned by Disney.)

And none of this counts ESPN HD; ESPN2 HD; ESPN Pay
Per View; ESPN3; ESPN Films; ESPN Plus; ESPN America;
The Longhorn Network; the SEC Network; the ESPN Web
site; city-based ESPN Web sites in Boston, New York,
Chicago, and Los Angeles; ESPN Radio; and ESPN’s retail
operations on the Web—ESPN.com. In addition, ESPN owns
27 international sports networks that reach 190 countries in
11 languages.

Of course, this expansion has not proceeded without
challenges. For example, over the last few years, NBC, CBS,
and Fox have all redoubled their commitment to 24-hour
sports broadcasting and a variety of specialty sports channels
—including the NFL Network, the Golf Channel, NBA TV, MLB
Network, and the Tennis Channel—have emerged. ESPN
programming costs have continued to rise while at the same
time the number of people subscribing to and watching ESPN
have fallen. In 2016, ESPN was the cause of Disney’s 11%
drop in cable operating income.

ESPN’s proposed solution to these challenges? ESPN is
planning to introduce another new sports broadcasting
business—a direct to consumer sports service that will carry
events not on traditional ESPN networks. It has also signed
agreements with several digital media companies that will
create more focused bundles of cable channels, bundles that
  will include ABC, Disney channels, and ESPN channels.
  Which of those numerous enterprises will be called “the Ocho”
  is hard to tell.1

ESPN is like most large firms in the United
States and the world: It has diversified
operations. Indeed, virtually all the 500 largest
firms in the United States and the 500 largest
firms in the world are diversified, either by
product or geographically. Large single-business
firms are very unusual. However, like most of
these large diversified firms, ESPN has
diversified along some dimensions but not
others.
What is Corporate Diversification?
Objective 9.1 Define corporate diversification and describe five
                types of corporate diversification.

A firm implements a corporate diversification strategy when it
operates in multiple industries or markets simultaneously. When a
firm operates in multiple industries simultaneously, it is said to be
implementing a product diversification strategy . When a firm
operates in multiple geographic markets simultaneously, it is said to
be implementing a geographic market diversification strategy .
When a firm implements both types of diversification simultaneously,
it is said to be implementing a product-market diversification
strategy .

We have already seen glimpses of these diversification strategies in
the discussion of vertical integration strategies in Chapter 8 .
Sometimes, when a firm vertically integrates backward or forward, it
begins operations in a new product or geographic market. This
happened to computer software firms when they began manning
their own call centers. These firms moved from the “computer
software development” business to the “call-center management”
business when they vertically integrated forward. In this sense, when
firms vertically integrate, they may also be implementing a
diversification strategy. However, the critical difference between the
diversification strategies studied here and vertical
integration (discussed in Chapter 8    ) is that in this chapter,
product-market diversification is the primary objective of these
strategies, whereas in Chapter 8 , such diversification was often a
secondary consequence of pursuing a vertical integration strategy.
Types of Corporate Diversification
Firms vary in the extent to which they have diversified the
businesses within which they operate. These strategies fall into three
broad categories presented in Figure 9.1 : limited corporate
diversification , related corporate diversification      , or
unrelated corporate diversification .




Figure 9.1 Levels and Types of Diversification
Limited Corporate Diversification
A firm has implemented a strategy of limited corporate
diversification when all or most of its business activities fall within a
single industry and geographic market (see Panel A of Figure
9.1 ). Two kinds of firms are included in this corporate
diversification category: single-business firms       (firms with greater
than 95 percent of their total sales in a single-product market) and
dominant-business firms (firms with between 70 and 95 percent
of their total sales in a single-product market).

Differences between single-business and dominant-business firms
are represented in Panel A of Figure 9.1      . The firm pursuing a
single-business corporate diversification strategy engages in only
one business, Business A. An example of a single-business firm is
the WD-40 Company of San Diego, California. This company
manufactures and distributes only one product: the spray lubricant
WD-40.

The dominant-business firm pursues two businesses, Business E
and a smaller Business F. An example of a dominant-business firm is
Donato’s Pizza. Donato’s Pizza does the vast majority of its business
in a single product—pizza—in a single market—the United States.
However, Donato’s has begun selling non-pizza food products,
including sandwiches, and owns a subsidiary that makes a machine
that automatically slices and puts pepperoni on pizzas. Not only
does Donato’s use this machine in its own pizzerias, it also sells this
machine to food manufacturers that make frozen pepperoni pizza.

In an important sense, firms pursuing a strategy of limited corporate
diversification are not leveraging their resources and capabilities
beyond a single product or market. Thus, the analysis of limited
corporate diversification is logically equivalent to the analysis of
business-level strategies (discussed in Part 2 of this
book). Because these kinds of strategies have already been
discussed, the remainder of this chapter focuses on corporate
strategies that involve higher levels of diversification.
Related Corporate Diversification
As a firm begins to engage in businesses in more than one product
or market, it moves away from being a single-business or dominant-
business firm and begins to adopt higher levels of corporate
diversification. When less than 70 percent of a firm’s revenue comes
from a single-product market and these multiple lines of business
share important economies of scope, the firm has implemented a
strategy of related corporate diversification. An economy of
scope exists when the value created by several businesses
operated together is greater than the value of these businesses
operated separately. Potential sources of economies of scope are
discussed later in this chapter.


The multiple businesses that a diversified firm pursues can realize
economies of scope in at least at least two ways (see Panel B in
Figure 9.1    ). If all the businesses in which a firm operates share
the same economies of scope, then this corporate diversification
strategy is called related-constrained . This strategy is related
because of the economies of scope that exist among a firm’s
businesses; it is constrained because all (or at least most) of the
businesses in a firm’s portfolio share the same economies of scope.

PepsiCo is an example of a related-constrained diversified firm.
Although PepsiCo operates in multiple businesses around the world,
all its businesses focus on providing snack-type products, either food
or beverages. This enables PepsiCo to exploit at least two
economies of scope across all its businesses: common distribution
processes and an emphasis on brands.

Regarding distribution, almost all of PepsiCo’s products are sold in
similar outlets—grocery stores, convenience stores, sandwich
shops, fast food and other restaurants, and so forth. Supplying these
different outlets with PepsiCo’s products can be a challenge, but this
firm has developed a variety of distribution capabilities that it applies
to each of its businesses.


Also, PepsiCo uses its ability to build and exploit brands in most of
its businesses. Whether it’s Pepsi, Doritos, Mountain Dew, or Big
Red, PepsiCo is all about building, and then exploiting, brand
names. In fact, PepsiCo has 22 brands that each generate well over
$1 billion or more in revenues a year.2


Both distribution capabilities and branding capabilities are
economies of scope. Since almost all of PepsiCo’s businesses build
on these two capabilities, PepsiCo is pursuing a related constrained
diversification strategy.


If the different businesses that a single firm pursues realize different
types of economies of scope, this corporate diversification strategy is
called related-linked       . For example, Business Q and Business R
may share production-based economies of scope, Business R and
Business S may share sales and distribution economies of scope,
and Business S and Business T may share supply economies of
scope. This strategy is represented in the related-linked section of
Figure 9.1     by businesses within a firm sharing different kinds of
economies of scope (i.e., straight lines and curved lines).


An example of a related-linked diversified firm is Disney. Disney has
evolved from a single-business firm (when it did nothing but produce
animated motion pictures), to a dominant business firm (when it
produced family-oriented motion pictures and operated a theme
park), to a related-constrained diversified firm (where it leveraged its
ability to create and market animated characters in its family-oriented
motion production business, in its multiple theme parks, and through
selling products in its Disney Stores). Recently, it has become so
diversified that it has taken on the attributes of related-linked
diversification. Although much of the Disney empire still builds on
animated characters, it also owns and operates businesses—
including a television network (ABC) that broadcasts non-Disney-
produced content—that are less directly linked to these characters.
This is not to suggest that Disney is pursuing an unrelated
diversification strategy. After all, most of its businesses are in the
entertainment industry, broadly defined, and share a variety of
economies of scope. Rather, this is only to suggest that it is no
longer possible to find a single economy of scope—like a Mickey
Mouse or a Lion King—that connects all of Disney’s business
enterprises. In this sense, Disney has become a related-linked
diversified firm.3
Unrelated Corporate
Diversification
Firms that pursue a strategy of related corporate diversification have
some type of economy of scope that benefits the different
businesses they pursue. However, it is possible for firms to pursue
numerous different businesses and for there to be no such
economies of scope (see Panel C of Figure 9.1         ). When less than
70 percent of a firm’s revenues is generated in a single-product
market and when the businesses in a firm’s portfolio share few, if
any, economies of scope, then that firm is pursuing a strategy of
unrelated corporate diversification.


As will be discussed shortly, there is little economic justification for
firms pursuing multiple businesses that do not share economies of
scope. For this reason, there are relatively few examples of such
firms in the modern economy—although such diversification has
existed in the past.
The Value of Corporate
Diversification
Objective 9.2 Specify the two conditions that a corporate
              diversification strategy must meet to create
              economic value.

For corporate diversification to be economically valuable, two
conditions must hold. First, there must be some valuable economy of
scope among the multiple businesses in which a firm is operating.
Second, it must be less costly for managers in a firm to realize these
economies of scope than for outside equity holders on their own. If
outside investors could realize the value of an economy of scope on
their own and at low cost, then they would have few incentives to
“hire” managers to realize this economy of scope for them. Each of
these requirements for corporate diversification to add value for a
firm will now be considered.
What Are Valuable Economies of
Scope?
As suggested earlier, economies of scope       exist when the value
created by operating several businesses simultaneously is greater
than the value of operating these businesses separately. In this
definition, the term scope refers to the range of businesses in which
a diversified firm operates. Economies refer to the lower costs or
higher revenues associated with operating multiple businesses.
Thus, only diversified firms can exploit economies of scope.
Economies of scope are valuable to the extent that they do, in fact,
increase a firm’s revenues or decrease its costs, compared with
what would be the case if these economies of scope did not exist, or
had the potential to exist but were not exploited.

A wide variety of potentially valuable sources of economies of scope
have been identified in the literature. Some of the most important of
these are listed in Table 9.1 and discussed in the following text.
How valuable economies of scope actually are, on average, has
been the subject of a great deal of research, which is summarized in
the Research Made Relevant feature.


Table 9.1 Different Types of Economies of Scope
R E S E A R C H M A D E R E L E VA N T
How Valuable Are Economies of Scope?


In 1994, Lang and Stulz published a sensational article that
suggested that, on average, when a firm began implementing
a corporate diversification strategy, it destroyed about 25
percent of its market value. Lang and Stulz came to this
conclusion by comparing the market performance of firms
pursuing a corporate diversification strategy with portfolios of
firms pursuing a limited diversification strategy. Taken
together, the market performance of a portfolio of firms that
were pursuing a limited diversification strategy was about 25
percent higher than the market performance of a single
diversified firm operating in all the businesses included in this
portfolio. These results suggested that not only were
economies of scope not valuable, but, on average, efforts to
realize these economies destroyed economic value. Similar
results were published by Comment and Jarrell using different
measures of firm performance.

Not surprisingly, these results generated quite a stir. If Lang
and Stulz were correct, then diversified firms—no matter what
kind of diversification strategy they engaged in—destroyed an
enormous amount of economic value. This could lead to a
fundamental restructuring of the U.S. economy.

However, several researchers questioned Lang and Stulz’s
conclusions. Two new findings suggest that, even if there is a
25-percent discount, diversification can still add value. First,
Villalonga and others found that firms pursuing diversification
strategies were generally performing more poorly before they
began diversifying than firms that never pursued
diversification strategies. Thus, although it might appear that
diversification leads to a significant loss of economic value,
that loss of value occurred before these firms began
implementing a diversification strategy. Indeed, some more
recent research suggests that these relatively poor-
performing firms may increase their market value over what
would have been the case if they did not diversify.

Second, Miller found that firms that find it in their self-interest
to diversify do so in a very predictable pattern. These firms
tend to diversify into the most profitable new business first,
the second-most profitable business second, and so forth.
Not surprisingly, the fiftieth diversification move made by
these firms might not generate huge additional profits.
However, these profits—it turns out—are still, on average,
positive. Because multiple rounds of diversification increase
profits at a decreasing rate, the overall average profitability of
diversified firms will generally be less than the overall average
profitability of firms that do not pursue a diversification
strategy—thus, a substantial difference between the market
value of non-diversified and diversified firms might exist.
However, this discount, per se, does not mean that the
diversified firm is destroying economic value. Rather, it may
mean only that a diversifying firm is creating value in smaller
increments as it continues to diversify.
All the results examine returns to diversification, on average.
But returns to diversification depend on the specific resources
and capabilities a firm possess and whether those can be
used to create value through diversification. So, for example,
a firm—like WD-40—that can generate value by remaining
focused (i.e., not diversifying) should not diversify at all. A firm
that can use shared activities to generate value—like ESPN—
should engage in related diversification. Finally, a firm that
can use corporate core competencies, without shared
activities, to generate value—like Berkshire Hathaway—
should engage in unrelated diversification. A recent paper by
Mackey, Barney, and Dotson shows that all forms of
diversification can create value for firms, and that over 90% of
firms choose that form of diversification that creates the most
value for their shareholders.4
Diversification to Exploit Shared
Activities
In Chapter 3    , it was suggested that value-chain analysis can be
used to describe the specific business activities of a firm. This same
value-chain analysis can also be used to describe the business
activities that may be shared across several different businesses
within a diversified firm. These shared activities are potential
sources of operational economies of scope for diversified firms.


Consider, for example, the hypothetical firm presented in Figure
9.2   . This diversified firm engages in three businesses: A, B, and
C. However, these three businesses share a variety of activities
throughout their value chains. For example, all three draw on the
same technology development operation. Product design and
manufacturing are shared in Businesses A and B and separate for
Business C. All three businesses share a common marketing and
service operation. Business A has its own distribution system.
Figure 9.2 A Hypothetical Firm Sharing Activities Among Three
Businesses


These kinds of shared activities are quite common among both
related-constrained and related-linked diversified firms. At Texas
Instruments, for example, a variety of electronics businesses share
some research and development activities, and many share common
manufacturing locations. Procter & Gamble’s numerous consumer
products businesses often share common manufacturing locations
and rely on a common distribution network (through retail grocery
stores).5 Some of the most common shared activities in diversified
firms and their location in the value chain are summarized in Table
9.2   .


Table 9.2 Possible Shared Activities and Their Place in the Value
Chain
Many of the shared activities listed in Table 9.2     can have the
effect of reducing a diversified firm’s costs. This is especially the
case if these shared activities are subject to economies of scale. For
example, if a diversified firm has a purchasing function that is
common to several of its different businesses, it can often obtain
volume discounts on its purchases that would otherwise not be
possible. Also, by manufacturing products that are used as inputs
into several of a diversified firm’s businesses, the total costs of
producing these products can be reduced. A single sales force
representing the products or services of several different businesses
within a diversified firm can reduce the cost of selling these products
or services. Firms such as IBM, HP, and General Motors (GM) have
all used shared activities to reduce their costs in these ways.


Failure to exploit shared activities across businesses can lead to out-
of-control costs. For example, Kentucky Fried Chicken, when it was
a division of PepsiCo, encouraged each of its regional business
operations in North America to develop its own quality improvement
plan. The result was enormous redundancy and at least three
conflicting quality efforts—all leading to higher-than-necessary costs.
In a similar way, Levi Strauss’s unwillingness to centralize and
coordinate order processing led to a situation where six separate
order-processing computer systems operated simultaneously. This
costly redundancy was ultimately replaced by a single, integrated
ordering system shared across the entire corporation.6


Shared activities can also increase the revenues in diversified firms’
businesses. This can happen in at least two ways. First, it may be
that shared product development and sales activities may enable
two or more businesses in a diversified firm to offer a bundled set of
products to customers. Sometimes, the value of these “product
bundles” is greater than the value of each product separately. This
additional customer value can generate revenues greater than would
have been the case if the businesses were not together and sharing
activities in a diversified firm.


These bundles of products are what has led firms like AT&T—initially
a provider of mobile telephone services—to acquire first a variety of
cable television companies, and more recently, DirectTV—a supplier
of satellite television services. Now AT&T customers can watch
television programs on any of their devices—TV, tablets, mobile
phones—receive a single bill, and interact with a single company. If
consumers find these linkages valuable, these shared activities are
likely to create value for AT&T’s shareholders.7


Such product bundles are important in other firms as well. Many
grocery stores now sell prepared foods alongside traditional grocery
products in the belief that busy customers want access to all kinds of
food products in the same location.8


Second, shared activities can enhance business revenues by
exploiting the strong, positive reputations of some of a firm’s
businesses in other of its businesses. For example, if one business
has a strong positive reputation for high-quality manufacturing, other
businesses sharing this manufacturing activity will gain some of the
advantages of this reputation. And, if one business has a strong
positive reputation for selling high-performance products, other
businesses sharing sales and marketing activities with this business
will gain some of the advantages of this reputation. In both cases,
businesses that draw on the strong reputation of another business
through shared activities with that business will have larger revenues
than they would were they operating on their own.
The Limits of Activity Sharing
Despite the potential of activity sharing to be the basis of a valuable
corporate diversification strategy, this approach has three important
limits.9 First, substantial organizational issues are often associated
with a diversified firm’s learning how to manage cross-business
relationships. Managing these relationships effectively can be very
difficult, and failure can lead to excess bureaucracy, inefficiency, and
organizational gridlock. These issues are discussed in detail in
Chapter 10     .


Second, sharing activities may limit the ability of a business to meet
its specific customers’ needs. For example, if two businesses share
manufacturing activities, they may reduce their manufacturing costs.
However, to gain these cost advantages, these businesses may
need to build products using somewhat standardized components
that do not fully meet their individual customers’ needs. Businesses
that share distribution activities may have lower overall distribution
costs but be unable to distribute their products to all their customers.
Businesses that share sales activities may have lower overall sales
costs but be unable to provide the specialized selling required in
each business.


One diversified firm that has struggled with the ability to meet the
specialized needs of customers in its different divisions is GM. To
exploit economies of scope in the design of new automobiles, GM
shared the design process across several automobile divisions. The
result over many years was “cookie-cutter” cars where the traditional
distinctiveness of several GM divisions, including Oldsmobile and
Cadillac, was all but lost.10


Third, if one business in a diversified firm has a poor reputation,
sharing activities with that business can reduce the quality of the
reputation of other businesses in the firm.


Taken together, these limits on activity sharing can more than offset
any possible gains. Indeed, over the past decade more and more
diversified firms have been abandoning efforts at activity sharing in
favor of managing each business’s activities independently. For
example, ABB, Inc. (a Swiss engineering firm) and CIBA-Geigy (a
Swiss chemical firm) have adopted explicit corporate policies that
restrict almost all activity sharing across businesses.11 Other
diversified firms, including Nestlé and GE, restrict activity sharing to
just one or two activities (such as research and development or
management training). However, to the extent that a diversified firm
can exploit shared activities while avoiding these problems, shared
activities can add value to a firm.
Core Competencies as an Economy of
Scope
A second potential economy of scope in a diversified corporation is
called a core competence. Core competence has been defined
by Prahalad and Hamel as, “the collective learning in the
organization, especially how to coordinate diverse production skills
and integrate multiple streams of technologies.”12 Core
competencies are complex sets of resources and capabilities that
link different businesses in a diversified firm through managerial and
technical know-how, experience, and wisdom.13
Shared Business and Transnational Core
Competencies
At least two types of core competencies have been described in the
literature. The first focuses on learning, know-how, and experience
that develops in a business within a diversified firm that can then be
leveraged in other businesses within that firm. This shared
business level competence may or may not be accompanied by
shared activities. When the business within a diversified firm that
develops and then shares this core competence with other
businesses in the firm in a non-domestic market, this core
competence is the basis of what is called a transnational
strategy    .14


One firm that has exploited a transnational core competence as an
economy of scope is General Electric in its medical imaging
business. Originally, GE entered China to source costly parts for its
MRI and related medical imaging machines. Those parts were then
shipped out of China and incorporated into imaging products that
were sold back into the Chinese market and elsewhere around the
world. Unfortunately, the imaging devices that were designed to work
in the West were not as reliable in China. In particular, MRI’s in the
United States are typically used five or six times a day, whereas the
same units in China were often used 25 to 30 times a day. GE’s
imaging machines were not designed to be used that many times a
day, and their reliability in China was low.
GE’s Chinese division became aware of this problem and began
designing a new type of imaging machine that could be used much
more frequently each day. Once built, this machine became very
popular in the Chinese market. However, what is particularly
interesting about this example is that non-Chinese GE business
started to sell the Chinese imaging machine outside of China. That
is, the competence that GE’s Chinese division had developed and
incorporated into its imaging technology was valuable in non-
Chinese markets serviced by other GE divisions. These other
divisions leveraged the Chinese division’s competence in a way that
generated value for the entire corporation. The Chinese division’s
products are now among GE’s most successful imaging
technologies.15
Corporate Competencies
A second type of core competence is called a corporate
competence      . This kind of competence exists when a firm
develops managerial skills, technical knowhow, experience, and
wisdom in managing a diversified corporation. This type of
competence usually exists at a firm’s corporate headquarters, and
may or may not be associated with shared activities.


One example of a firm with this corporate competence, with no
shared activities, is Berkshire Hathaway. With sales more than $210
billion, Berkshire Hathaway operates in four large segments:
insurance; railroads; utilities and energy; and manufacturing,
services, and retail. However, its businesses are run through literally
hundreds of wholly owned subsidiaries. Some of these subsidiaries
are relatively obscure and sell only to other companies, e.g., TTI, a
Texas company that distributes components to electronics
manufacturing firms. Other subsidiaries are well-known in consumer
markets, e.g., GEICO, Fruit of the Loom, Justin Brands, Benjamin
Moore, Dairy Queen, RC Wiley, and Helzberg Diamonds to name
just a few.


In addition to owning hundreds of businesses outright, Berkshire
Hathaway also invests cash from its businesses to take substantial,
but not controlling, interests in a variety of other companies,
including Mars, American Express, Coca-Cola, Wells Fargo, and
IBM.
However, unlike firms that exploit shared activities as an economy of
scope, the businesses Berkshire Hathaway owns have very few, if
any, shared activities. In fact, perhaps the only thing that all these
businesses have in common is that Berkshire Hathaway likes them
to generate positive cash flows.


However, that Berkshire Hathaway does not have shared activities
does not mean they do not realize economies of scope. Instead of
shared activities, Berkshire Hathaway has developed significant
skills in managing this type of corporation. Consider how Berkshire
Hathaway describes that competence in their 2012 10K report,
“Berkshire’s operating businesses are managed on an unusually
decentralized basis. There are essentially no centralized or
integrated business functions (such as sales, marketing, purchasing,
legal, or human resources) and there is minimal involvement by
Berkshire’s corporate headquarters in the day to day business
activities of the operating businesses.”


In describing Berkshire’s operating principles, founder and chair,
Warren Buffett, has written, “Although our form is corporate, our
attitude is partnership. Charlie Munger (Vice Chair of the Board) and
I think of our shareholders as owner-partners, and ourselves as
managing partners . . . We do not view the company as the ultimate
owner of our business assets but instead view the company as a
conduit through which our shareholders own the assets . . . Our long
term economic goal is to maximize Berkshire’s average annual rate
of gain in intrinsic business value on a per-share basis. We do not
measure the economic significance or performance of Berkshire by
its size; we measure by per-share progress.”16


Core Competencies and Shared Activities
Of course, core competencies and shared activities are not mutually
exclusive. Diversified firms can exploit both these kinds of
economies of scope at the same time. Danaher Corporation is a firm
that exploits both these economies of scope simultaneously. With
over $20 billion in sales, Danaher is a widely diversified
manufacturing firm that has developed a corporate competence in
applying lean manufacturing capabilities to a wide variety of
business processes. While most operating decisions in this
corporation are delegated to operating divisions, the corporate office
trains leaders from all over the corporation in lean manufacturing
techniques.17 Thus, Danaher’s commitment to use lean
manufacturing processes in all its businesses is an example of a
core competence as an economy of scope, and the processes it
uses to train employees in its different businesses how to apply
these lean manufacturing techniques is an example of a shared
activity.
Limits of Core Competencies
Just as there are limits to the value of shared activities as sources of
economies of scope, so there are limits to core competencies as
sources of these economies. The first of these limitations stems from
important organizational issues to be discussed in Chapter 11        .
The way that a diversified firm is organized can either facilitate the
exploitation of core competencies or prevent this exploitation from
occurring.

A second limitation of core competencies is a result of the intangible
nature of these economies of scope. Whereas shared activities are
reflected in tangible operations in a diversified firm, core
competencies may be reflected only in shared knowledge,
experience, and wisdom across businesses. The intangible
character of these relationships is emphasized when they are
described as a dominant logic        in a firm, or a common way of
thinking about strategy across different businesses.18


The intangibility of core competencies can lead diversified firms to
make two kinds of errors in managing relatedness. First, intangible
core competencies can be illusory inventions by creative managers
who link even the most completely unrelated businesses and thereby
justify their diversification strategy. A firm that manufactures
airplanes and running shoes can rationalize this diversification by
claiming to have a core competence in managing transportation
businesses. A firm operating in the professional football business
and the movie business can rationalize this diversification by
claiming to have a core competence in managing entertainment
businesses. Such invented competencies            are not real sources
of economies of scope.


Second, a diversified firm’s businesses may be linked by a core
competence, but this competence may affect these businesses’
costs or revenues in a trivial way. Thus, for example, all a firm’s
businesses may be affected by government actions, but the impact
of these actions on costs and revenues in different businesses may
be quite small. A firm may have a core competence in managing
relationships with the government, but this core competence will not
reduce costs or enhance revenues for these businesses very much.
Also, each of a diversified firm’s businesses may use some
advertising. However, if advertising does not have a major impact on
revenues for these businesses, core competencies in advertising are
not likely to significantly reduce a firm’s costs or increase its
revenues. In this case, a core competence may be a source of
economies of scope, but the value of those economies may be very
small.
Diversification to Exploit Financial
Economies of Scope
A third class of motivations for diversification focuses on financial
advantages associated with diversification. Three financial
implications of diversification have been studied: diversification and
capital allocation, diversification and risk reduction, and tax
advantages of diversification.
Diversification and Capital Allocation
Capital can be allocated to businesses in one of two ways. First,
businesses operating as independent entities can compete for
capital in the external capital market. They do this by providing a
sufficiently high return to induce investors to purchase shares of their
equity, by having a sufficiently high cash flow to repay principal and
interest on debt, and in other ways. Alternatively, a business can be
part of a diversified firm. That diversified firm competes in the
external capital market and allocates capital among its various
businesses. In a sense, diversification creates an internal capital
market     in which businesses in a diversified firm compete for
corporate capital.19


For an internal capital market to create value for a diversified firm, it
must offer some efficiency advantages over an external capital
market. It has been suggested that a potential efficiency gain from
internal capital markets depends on the greater amount and quality
of information that a diversified firm possesses about the businesses
it owns, compared with the information that external suppliers of
capital possess. Owning a business gives a diversified firm access to
detailed and accurate information about the actual performance of
the business, its true future prospects, and thus the actual amount
and cost of the capital that should be allocated to it. External sources
of capital, in contrast, have relatively limited access to information
and thus have a limited ability to judge the actual performance and
future prospects of a business.
Some have questioned whether a diversified firm, as a source of
capital, has more and better information about a business it owns,
compared with external sources of capital. After all, independent
businesses seeking capital have a strong incentive to provide
sufficient information to external suppliers of capital to obtain
required funds. However, a firm that owns a business may have at
least two informational advantages over external sources of capital.


First, although an independent business has an incentive to provide
information to external sources of capital, it also has an incentive to
downplay or even not report any negative information about its
performance and prospects.20 Such negative information would raise
an independent firm’s cost of capital. External sources of capital
have limited ability to force a business to reveal all information about
its performance and prospects and thus may provide capital at a
lower cost than they would if they had full information. Ownership
gives a firm the right to compel more complete disclosure, although
even here full disclosure is not guaranteed. With this more complete
information, a diversified firm can allocate just the right amount of
capital, at the appropriate cost, to each business.


Second, an independent business may have an incentive not to
reveal all the positive information about its performance and
prospects. In Chapter 3     , the ability of a firm to earn economic
profits was shown to depend on the imitability of its resources and
capabilities. An independent business that informs external sources
of capital about all of its sources of competitive advantage is also
informing its potential competitors about these sources of advantage.
This information sharing increases the probability that these sources
of advantage will be imitated. Because of the competitive
implications of sharing this information, firms may choose not to
share it, and external sources of capital may underestimate the true
performance and prospects of a business.


A diversified firm, however, may gain access to this additional
information about its businesses without revealing it to potential
competitors. This information enables the diversified firm to make
more informed decisions about how much capital to allocate to a
business and about the cost of that capital, compared with the
external capital market.21


Over time, there should be fewer errors in funding businesses
through internal capital markets, compared with funding businesses
through external capital markets. Fewer funding errors, over time,
suggest a slight capital allocation advantage for a diversified firm,
compared with an external capital market. This advantage should be
reflected in somewhat higher rates of return on invested capital for
the diversified firm, compared with the rates of return on invested
capital for external sources of capital.


However, the businesses within a diversified firm do not always gain
cost-of-capital advantages by being part of a diversified firm’s
portfolio. Several authors have argued that because a diversified firm
has lower overall risk (see the following discussion), it will have a
lower cost of capital, which it can pass along to the businesses
within its portfolio. Although the lower risks associated with a
diversified firm may lower the firm’s cost of capital, the appropriate
cost of capital to businesses within the firm depends on the
performance and prospects of each of those businesses. The firm’s
advantages in evaluating its businesses’ performances and
prospects result in more appropriate capital allocation, not just in
lower cost of capital for those businesses. Indeed, a business’s cost
of capital may be lower than it could have obtained in the external
capital market (because the firm can more fully evaluate the positive
aspects of that business), or it may be higher than it could have
obtained in the external capital market (because the firm can more
fully evaluate the negative aspects of that business).


Of course, if these businesses also have lower cost or higher
revenue expectations because they are part of a diversified firm,
then those cost/revenue advantages will be reflected in the
appropriate cost of capital for these businesses. In this sense, any
operational economies of scope for businesses in a diversified firm
may be recognized by a diversified firm exploiting financial
economies of scope.
Limits on Internal Capital Markets
Although internal capital allocation has several potential advantages
for a diversified firm, this process also has several limits. First, the
diversification strategy that a firm pursues can affect the efficiency of
this allocation process. A firm that implements a strategy of
unrelated diversification, and does not develop a corporate
competence, requires managers to evaluate the performance and
prospects of numerous very different businesses. This can put a
greater strain on the capital allocation skills of its managers.


Second, the increased efficiency of internal capital allocation
depends on managers in a diversified firm having better information
for capital allocation than the information available to external
sources. However, this higher-quality information is not guaranteed.
The incentives that can lead managers to exaggerate their
performance and prospects to external capital sources can also lead
to this behavior within a diversified firm. Indeed, several examples of
business managers falsifying performance records to gain access to
more internal capital have been reported.22 Research suggests that
capital allocation requests by managers are routinely discounted in
diversified firms to correct for these managers’ inflated estimates of
the performance and prospects of their businesses.23


Finally, not only do business managers have an incentive to inflate
the performance and prospects of their business in a diversified firm,
but managers in charge of capital allocation in these firms may have
an incentive to continue investing in a business despite its poor
performance and prospects. The reputation and status of these
managers often depend on the success of these business
investments because often they initially approved them. These
managers often continue throwing good money at these businesses
in hope that they will someday improve, thereby justifying their
original decision. Organizational psychologists call this process
escalation of commitment        and have presented numerous
examples of managers becoming irrationally committed to an
investment.24


Indeed, research on the value of internal capital markets in
diversified firms suggests that, on average, the limitations of these
markets often outweigh their advantages. For example, even
controlling for firm size, excessive investment in poorly performing
businesses in a diversified firm reduces the market value of the
average diversified firm.25 However, the fact that many firms do not
gain the advantages associated with internal capital markets does
not necessarily imply that no firms gain these advantages. If only a
few firms can obtain the advantages of internal capital markets while
avoiding their limitations, this financial economy of scope may be a
source of at least a temporary competitive advantage.
Diversification and Risk Reduction
Another possible financial economy of scope for a diversified firm
has already been briefly mentioned—the riskiness of the cash flows
of diversified firms is lower than the riskiness of the cash flows of
undiversified firms. Consider, for example, the riskiness of two
businesses operating separately compared with the risk of a
diversified firm operating in those same two businesses
simultaneously. If both these businesses are very risky on their own
and the cash flows from these businesses are not highly correlated
over time, then combining these two businesses into a single firm will
generate a lower level of overall risk for the diversified firm than for
each of these businesses on their own.


This lower level of risk is due to the low correlation between the cash
flows associated with these two businesses. If Business I is having a
bad year, Business II might be having a good year, and a firm that
operates in both of these businesses simultaneously can have
moderate levels of performance. In another year, Business II might
be off, while Business I is having a good year. Again, the firm
operating in both these businesses can have moderate levels of
performance. Firms that diversify to reduce risk will have relatively
stable returns over time, especially as they diversify into many
different businesses with cash flows that are not highly correlated
over time.
Tax Advantages of Diversification
Another financial economy of scope from diversification stems from
possible tax advantages of this corporate strategy. These possible
tax advantages reflect one or a combination of two effects. First, a
diversified firm can use losses in some of its businesses to offset
profits in others, thereby reducing its overall tax liability. Of course,
substantial losses in some of its businesses may overwhelm profits
in other businesses, forcing businesses that would have remained
solvent if they were independent to cease operation. However, if
business losses are not too large, a diversified firm’s tax liability can
be reduced. Empirical research suggests that diversified firms do,
sometimes, offset profits in some businesses with losses in others,
although the tax savings of these activities are usually small.26


Second, because diversification can reduce the riskiness of a firm’s
cash flows, it can also reduce the probability that a firm will declare
bankruptcy. This can increase a firm’s debt capacity. This effect on
debt capacity is greatest when the cash flows of a diversified firm’s
businesses are perfectly and negatively correlated. However, even
when these cash flows are perfectly and positively correlated, there
can still be a (modest) increase in debt capacity.


Debt capacity is particularly important in tax environments where
interest payments on debt are tax deductible. In this context,
diversified firms can increase their leverage up to their debt capacity
and reduce their tax liability accordingly. Of course, if interest
payments are not tax deductible or if the marginal corporate tax rate
is relatively small, then the tax advantages of diversification can be
quite small. Empirical work suggests that diversified firms do have
greater debt capacity than undiversified firms.27
Diversification to Exploit Anticompetitive
Economies of Scope
A third group of motivations for diversification is based on the
relationship between diversification strategies and various
anticompetitive activities by firms. Two specific examples of these
activities are: (1) multipoint competition to facilitate mutual
forbearance and tacit collusion; and (2) exploiting market power.
Multipoint Competition
Multipoint competition exists when two or more diversified firms
simultaneously compete in multiple markets. For example, HP and
Dell compete in both the personal computer market and the market
for computer printers. Michelin and Goodyear compete in both the
U.S. automobile tire market and the European automobile tire
market. Disney and AOL/Time Warner compete in both the movie
production and book publishing businesses.


Multipoint competition can serve to facilitate a type of tacit collusion
called mutual forbearance       . As suggested in Chapter 7        , firms
engage in tacit collusion      when they cooperate to reduce rivalry
below the level expected under perfect competition. Consider the
situation facing two diversified firms, A and B. These two firms
operate in the same businesses, I, II, III, and IV (see Figure 9.3      ).
In this context, any decisions that Firm A might make to compete
aggressively in Businesses I and III must consider the possibility that
Firm B will respond by competing aggressively in Businesses II and
IV and vice versa. The potential loss that each of these firms may
experience in some of its businesses must be compared with the
potential gain that each might obtain if it exploits competitive
advantages in other of its businesses. If the present value of gains
does not outweigh the present value of losses from retaliation, then
both firms will avoid competitive activity. Refraining from competition
is mutual forbearance.28
Figure 9.3 Multipoint Competition Between Hypothetical Firms
A and B


Mutual forbearance because of multipoint competition has occurred
in several industries. For example, this form of tacit collusion has
been described as existing between Michelin and Goodyear,
Maxwell House and Folger’s, Caterpillar and John Deere, and BIC
and Gillette.29 Another clear example of such cooperation can be
found in the airline industry. For example, America West (now part of
American Airlines through its merger with U.S. Air) began service
into the Houston Intercontinental Airport with very low introductory
fares. Continental Airlines (now part of United Airlines), the dominant
firm at Houston Intercontinental, rapidly responded to America
West’s low Houston fares by reducing the price of its flights from
Phoenix, Arizona, to several cities in the United States. Phoenix is
the home airport of America West. Within just a few weeks, America
West withdrew its low introductory fares in the Houston market, and
Continental withdrew its reduced prices in the Phoenix market. The
threat of retaliation across markets apparently led America West and
Continental to tacitly collude on prices.30


Some recent research investigates the conditions under which
mutual forbearance strategies are pursued, as well as conditions
under which multipoint competition does not lead to mutual
forbearance.31 In general, the value of the threat of retaliation must
be substantial for multipoint competition to lead to mutual
forbearance. However, not only must the payoffs to mutual
forbearance be substantial, but the firms pursuing this strategy must
have strong strategic linkages among their diversified businesses.
This suggests that firms pursuing mutual forbearance strategies
based on multipoint competition are usually pursuing a form of
related diversification.32
Diversification and Market Power
Internal allocations of capital among a diversified firm’s businesses
may enable it to exploit in some of its businesses the market power
advantages it enjoys in other of its businesses. For example,
suppose that a firm is earning monopoly profits in a business. This
firm can use some of these monopoly profits to subsidize the
operations of another of its businesses. This cross-subsidization can
take several forms, including predatory pricing      —that is, setting
prices so that they are less than the subsidized business’s costs.
The effect of this cross-subsidy may be to drive competitors out of
the subsidized business and then to obtain monopoly profits in that
subsidized business. In a sense, diversification enables a firm to
apply its monopoly power in several different businesses.
Economists call this a deep-pockets model of diversification.33


Diversified firms with operations in regulated monopolies have been
criticized for this kind of cross-subsidization. For example, most of
the regional telephone companies in the United States are engaging
in diversification strategies. The consent decree that forced the
breakup of the original AT&T expressly forbade cross-subsidies
between these regional companies’ telephone monopolies and other
business activities, under the assumption that such subsidies would
give these firms an unfair competitive advantage in their diversified
business activities.34


Although these market power economies of scope, in principle, may
exist, relatively little empirical work documents their existence.
Indeed, research on regulated utilities diversifying into nonregulated
businesses in the 1980s suggests not that these firms use monopoly
profits in their regulated businesses to unfairly subsidize non-
regulated businesses, but that non-competition-oriented
management skills developed in the regulated businesses tend to
make diversification less profitable rather than more profitable.35
Nevertheless, the potential that large diversified firms have to
exercise market power and to behave in socially irresponsible ways
has led some observers to call for actions to curtail both the
economic and political power of these firms. These issues are
discussed in the Ethics and Strategy       feature.
Firm Size and Employee Incentives to
Diversify
Employees may have incentives to diversify that are independent of
any benefits from other sources of economies of scope. This is
especially the case for employees in senior management positions
and employees with long tenure in a firm. These employee
incentives reflect the interest of employees to diversify because of
the relationship between firm size and management compensation.


Research over the years demonstrates conclusively that the primary
determinant of the compensation of top managers in a firm is not the
economic performance of the firm but the size of the firm, usually
measured in sales.36 Thus, managers seeking to maximize their
income should attempt to grow their firm. One of the easiest ways to
grow a firm is through diversification, especially unrelated
diversification through mergers and acquisitions. By making large
acquisitions, a diversified firm can grow substantially in a short
period, leading senior managers to earn higher incomes. All of this is
independent of any economic profit that diversification may or may
not generate. Senior managers need only worry about economic
profit if the level of that profit is so low that unfriendly takeovers are a
threat or so low that the board of directors may be forced to replace
management.


Recently, the traditional relationship between firm size and
management compensation has begun to break down. More and
more, the compensation of senior managers is being tied to the
firm’s economic performance. The use of stock and other forms of
deferred compensation makes it in management’s best interest to be
concerned with a firm’s economic performance. These changes in
compensation do not necessarily imply that firms will abandon all
forms of diversification. However, they do suggest that firms will
abandon those forms of diversification that do not generate real
economies of scope.
Can Equity Holders Realize
These Economies of Scope on
Their Own?
Earlier in this chapter, it was suggested that for a firm’s
diversification strategies to create value, two conditions must hold.
First, these strategies must exploit valuable economies of scope.
Potentially valuable economies of scope were presented in Table
9.1   and discussed in the previous section. Second, it must be less
costly for managers in a firm to realize these economies of scope
than for outside equity holders on their own. If outside equity holders
could realize an economy of scope on their own, without a firm’s
managers, at low cost, why would they want to hire managers to do
this for them by investing in a firm and providing capital to managers
to exploit an economy of scope?


Table 9.3    summarizes the discussion on the potential value of the
different economies of scope listed in Table 9.1      . It also suggests
which of these economies of scope will be difficult for outside equity
investors to exploit on their own and thus which bases of
diversification are most likely to create positive returns for a firm’s
equity holders.
Table 9.3 The Competitive Implications of Different Economies
of Scope
Most of the economies of scope listed in Table 9.3        cannot be
realized by equity holders on their own. This is because most of
them require activities that equity holders cannot engage in or
information that equity holders do not possess. For example, shared
activities, core competencies, multipoint competition, and exploiting
market power all require the detailed coordination of business
activities across multiple businesses in a firm. Although equity
holders may own a portfolio of equities, they are not able to
coordinate business activities across this portfolio. In a similar way,
internal capital allocation requires information about a business’s
prospects that is simply not available to a firm’s outside equity
holders. All this suggests reasons why firms may engage in
diversification. Some of the potential ethical implications of this
diversification are discussed in the Ethics and Strategy        feature.


Indeed, the only two economies of scope listed in Table 9.3           that
do not have the potential for generating positive returns for a firm’s
equity holders are diversification to maximize the size of a firm—
because firm size, per se, is not valuable—and diversification to
reduce risk—because equity holders can do this on their own at very
low cost by simply investing in a diversified portfolio of stocks.
Indeed, although risk reduction is often a published rationale for
many diversification moves, this rationale, by itself, is not directly
consistent with the interests of a firm’s equity holders. However,
some scholars have suggested that this strategy may directly benefit
other of a firm’s stakeholders and thus indirectly benefit its equity
holders. This possibility is discussed in detail in the Strategy in
Depth     feature.
E T H I C S A N D S T R AT E G Y
Globalization and the Threat of the Multinational Firm


In 1999, a loose coalition of union members,
environmentalists, youth, indigenous peoples, human rights
activists, small farmers, and displaced workers took to the
streets of Seattle, Washington, to protest a meeting of the
World Trade Organization (WTO) and to fight against the
growing global power of corporations. Government officials
and corporate officers alike were confused by these protests.
After all, hadn’t world trade increased 19 times from 1950 to
1995 ($0.4 trillion to $7.6 trillion in constant 2003 dollars), and
hadn’t the total economic output of the entire world gone from
$6.4 trillion in 1950 to $60.7 trillion in 2005 (again, in constant
2003 dollars)? Why protest a global economic system—a
system that was enhancing the level of free trade and
facilitating global economic efficiency—that was so clearly
improving the economic well-being of the world’s population?
This 1999 protest turned out to be the first of many such
demonstrations, culminating in the Occupy Movement after
the financial crisis of 2007 and, in some ways, the election of
Donald Trump as President of the United States in 2016. And,
still, many business and government leaders remain
confused. Empirically, globalization has improved the world
economy, so why the controversy?

The message that these events were sending to government
and big business was that these aggregate growth numbers
masked more truth than they told. Yes, there has been
economic growth. But that growth has benefited only a small
percentage of the world’s population. Most of the population
still struggles to survive. The combined net worth of 358 U.S.
billionaires in the early 1990s ($760 billion) was equal to the
combined net worth of the 2.5 billion poorest people on the
earth! 83 percent of the world’s total income goes to the
richest fifth of the population while the poorest fifth of the
world’s population receives only 1.4 percent of the world’s
total income. Currently, 65.3 million people worldwide have
had to leave their home countries to find work—and safety—
in foreign lands, and approximately 1.4 billion people around
the world live on less than $1 a day. Even in relatively affluent
societies such as the United States, people find it increasingly
difficult to meet their financial obligations. Falling real wages,
economic insecurity, and corporate downsizing have led
many people to work longer hours, to hold two or more jobs,
and to remain underemployed as they have watched their
factory jobs being shipped to cost centers overseas.

The causes of this apparent contradiction—global economic
growth linked with growing global economic frustration—are
numerous and complex. However, one explanation focuses
on the growing economic power of the diversified
multinational corporation. The size of these institutions can be
immense—many international diversified firms are larger than
the entire economies of many nations. And these huge
institutions, with a single-minded focus on maximizing their
performance, can make profit-making decisions that
adversely affect their suppliers, their customers, their
employees, and the environment, all with relative impunity.
Armed with the unspoken mantra that “Greed is good,” these
corporations can justify almost any action if it increases the
wealth of their shareholders.

Of course, even if one accepts this hypothesis—and it is far
from being universally accepted—solutions to the growing
power of internationally diversified firms are not obvious. The
problem is that one way that firms become large and powerful
is by being able to meet customer demands effectively. Thus,
firm size, per se, is not necessarily an indication that a firm is
behaving in ways inconsistent with the public good.
Government efforts to restrict the size of firms simply because
they are large could easily have the effect of making citizens
worse off. However, once firms are large and powerful, they
may very well be tempted to exercise that power in ways that
benefit themselves at great cost to society.

Whatever the causes and solutions to these problems,
protests that began in Seattle in 1999 have at least one clear
message: global growth for growth’s sake is no longer
universally accepted as the correct objective of international
economic policy.37
Corporate Diversification and
Sustained Competitive Advantage
Objective 9.3 Specify the circumstances under which a firm’s
              diversification strategy will be a source of sustained
              competitive advantage.

Table 9.3 describes those economies of scope that are likely to
create real economic value for diversifying firms. However, as we
have seen with all the other strategies discussed in this book, the
fact that a strategy is valuable does not necessarily imply that it will
be a source of sustained competitive advantage. For diversification
to be a source of sustained competitive advantage, it must be not
only valuable but also rare and costly to imitate, and a firm must be
organized to implement this strategy. The rarity and imitability of
diversification are discussed in this section; organizational questions
are deferred until the next chapter.
The Rarity of Diversification
At first glance, it seems clear that diversification per se is usually not
a rare firm strategy. Most large firms have adopted some form of
diversification, if only the limited diversification of a dominant-
business firm. Even many small and medium-sized firms have
adopted different levels of diversification strategy.
S T R AT E G Y I N D E P T H




Risk-Reducing Diversification and a Firm’s Other
Stakeholders


Although diversifying to reduce risk generally does not directly
benefit outside equity investors in a firm, it can indirectly
benefit outside equity investors through its impact on the
willingness of other stakeholders in a firm to make firm-
specific investments. A firm’s stakeholders include all
those groups and individuals who have an interest in how a
firm performs. In this sense, a firm’s equity investors are one
of a firm’s stakeholders. Other firm stakeholders include
employees, suppliers, and customers.

Firm stakeholders make firm-specific investments when
the value of the investments they make in a firm is much
greater than the value of those same investments would be in
other firms. Consider, for example, a firm’s employees. An
employee with a long tenure in a firm has generally made
substantial firm-specific human capital investments         .
These investments include understanding a firm’s culture,
policies, and procedures; knowing the “right” people to
contact to complete a task; and so forth. Such investments
have significant value in the firm where they are made.
Indeed, such firm-specific knowledge is generally necessary if
an employee is to be able to help a firm conceive and
implement valuable strategies. However, the specific
investments that an employee makes in a firm have almost no
value in other firms. If a firm were to cease operations,
employees would instantly lose almost all the value of any of
the firm-specific investments they had made in that firm.

Suppliers and customers can also make these firm-specific
investments. Suppliers make these investments when they
customize their products or services to the specific
requirements of a customer. They also make firm-specific
investments when they forgo opportunities to sell to other
firms in order to sell to a particular firm. Customers make firm-
specific investments when they customize their operations to
fully utilize the products or services of a firm. Also, by
developing close relationships with a firm, customers may
forgo the opportunity to develop relationships with other firms.
These, too, are firm-specific investments made by customers.
If a firm were to cease operations, suppliers and customers
would instantly lose almost the entire value of the specific
investments they have made in this firm.

Although the firm-specific investments made by employees,
suppliers, and customers are risky—in the sense that almost
their entire value is lost if the firm in which they are made
ceases operations—they are extremely important if a firm is
going to be able to generate economic profits. As was
suggested in Chapter 3 , valuable, rare, and costly-to-
imitate resources and capabilities are more likely to be a
source of sustained competitive advantage than resources
and capabilities without these attributes. Firm-specific
investments are more likely to have these attributes than non-
firm-specific investments. Non-firm-specific investments are
investments that can generate value in numerous different
firms.

Thus, valuable, rare, and costly-to-imitate firm-specific
investments made by a firm’s employees, suppliers, and
customers can be the source of economic profits. And
because a firm’s outside equity holders are residual claimants
on the cash flows generated by a firm, these economic profits
benefit equity holders. Thus, a firm’s outside equity holders
generally will want a firm’s employees, suppliers, and
customers to make specific investments in a firm because
those investments are likely to be sources of economic wealth
for outside equity holders.

However, given the riskiness of firm-specific investments,
employees, suppliers, and customers will generally only be
willing to make these investments if some of the riskiness
associated with making them can be reduced. Outside equity
holders have little difficulty managing the risks associated
with investing in a firm because they can always create a
portfolio of stocks that fully diversifies this risk at very low
cost. Therefore, diversification that reduces the riskiness of a
firm’s cash flows does not generally directly benefit a firm’s
outside equity holders. However, a firm’s employees,
suppliers, and customers usually do not have these low-cost
diversification opportunities. Employees, for example, are
rarely able to make firm-specific human capital investments in
a large enough number of different firms to fully diversify the
risks associated with making them. And although suppliers
and customers can diversify their firm-specific investments to
a greater degree than employees—through selling to multiple
customers and through buying from multiple suppliers—the
cost of this diversification for suppliers and customers is
usually greater than the costs that are borne by outside equity
holders in diversifying their risk.

Because it is often very costly for a firm’s employees,
suppliers, and customers to diversify the risks associated with
making firm-specific investments on their own, these
stakeholders will often prefer that a firm’s managers help
manage this risk for them. Managers in a firm can do this by
diversifying the portfolio of businesses in which a firm
operates. If a firm is unwilling to diversify its portfolio of
businesses, then that firm’s employees, suppliers, and
customers will generally be unwilling to make specific
investments in that firm. Moreover, because these firm-
specific investments can generate economic profits and
because economic profits can directly benefit a firm’s outside
equity holders, equity holders have an indirect incentive to
encourage a firm to pursue a diversification strategy, even
though that strategy does not directly benefit them.

Put differently, a firm’s diversification strategy can be thought
of as compensation for the firm-specific investments that a
firm’s employees, suppliers, and customers make in a firm.
Outside equity holders have an incentive to encourage this
compensation in return for access to some of the economic
profits that these firm-specific investments can generate. In
general, the greater the impact of the firm-specific investment
made by a firm’s employees, suppliers, and customers on the
ability of a firm to generate economic profits, the more likely
that pursuing a corporate diversification strategy is indirectly
consistent with the interests of a firm’s outside equity holders.
In addition, the more limited the ability of a firm’s employees,
suppliers, and customers to diversify the risks associated with
making firm-specific investments at low cost, the more that
   corporate diversification is consistent with the interests of
   outside equity investors.38


However, the rarity of diversification depends not on diversification
per se but on how rare the economies of scope associated with that
diversification are. If only a few competing firms have exploited an
economy of scope, that economy of scope can be rare. If numerous
firms have done so, it will be common and not a source of
competitive advantage.
The Imitability of Diversification
Both forms of imitation—direct duplication and substitution—are
relevant in evaluating the ability of diversification strategies to
generate sustained competitive advantages, even if the economies
of scope that they create are rare.
Direct Duplication of Diversification
The extent to which a valuable and rare corporate diversification
strategy is immune from direct duplication depends on how costly it
is for competing firms to realize this same economy of scope. As
suggested in Table 9.4 , some economies of scope are, in general,
costlier to duplicate than others.


Table 9.4 Costly Duplication of Economies of Scope


Shared activities, risk reduction, tax advantages, and employee
compensation as bases for corporate diversification are usually
relatively easy to duplicate. Because shared activities are based on
tangible assets that a firm exploits across multiple businesses, such
as common research and development labs, common sales forces,
and common manufacturing, they are usually relatively easy to
duplicate. The only duplication issues for shared activities concern
developing the cooperative cross-business relationships that often
facilitate the use of shared activities—issues discussed in the next
chapter. Moreover, because risk reduction, tax advantages, and
employee compensation motives for diversifying can be
accomplished through any type of diversification, these motives for
diversifying tend to be relatively easy to duplicate.


Other economies of scope are much more difficult to duplicate.
These difficult-to-duplicate economies of scope include core
competencies, internal capital allocation efficiencies, multipoint
competition, and exploitation of market power. Because core
competencies are more intangible, their direct duplication is often
challenging. The realization of capital allocation economies of scope
requires very substantial information-processing capabilities. These
capabilities are often very difficult to develop. Multipoint competition
requires very close coordination between the different businesses in
which a firm operates. This kind of coordination is socially complex
and thus often immune from direct duplication.39 Finally, exploitation
of market power may be costly to duplicate because it requires that a
firm must possess significant market power in one of its lines of
business. A firm that does not have this market power advantage
would have to obtain it. The cost of doing so, in most situations,
would be prohibitive.
Substitutes for Diversification
Two obvious substitutes for diversification exist. First, instead of
obtaining cost or revenue advantages from exploiting economies of
scope across businesses in a diversified firm, a firm may decide to
simply grow and develop each of its businesses separately. In this
sense, a firm that successfully implements a cost leadership strategy
or a product differentiation strategy in a single business can obtain
the same cost or revenue advantages it could have obtained by
exploiting economies of scope but without having to develop cross-
business relations. Growing independent businesses within a
diversified firm can be a substitute for exploiting economies of scope
in a diversification strategy.


A second substitute for exploiting economies of scope in
diversification can be found in strategic alliances. By using a
strategic alliance, a firm may be able to gain the economies of scope
it could have obtained if it had carefully exploited economies of
scope across its businesses. Thus, for example, instead of a firm
exploiting research and development economies of scope between
two businesses it owns, it could form a strategic alliance with a
different firm and form a joint research and development lab. Instead
of a firm exploiting sales economies of scope by linking its
businesses through a common sales force, it might develop a sales
agreement with another firm and obtain cost or revenue advantages
in this way.
Summary
Firms implement corporate diversification strategies that range from
limited diversification (single-business, dominant-business) to related
diversification (related-constrained, related-linked) to unrelated
diversification. To be valuable, corporate diversification strategies
must reduce costs or increase revenues by exploiting economies of
scope that outside equity holders cannot realize on their own at low
cost.

Several motivations for implementing diversification strategies exist,
including exploiting shared activities, core competencies (shared
business level competencies, corporate competencies), financial
economies of scope (internal capital allocation, risk reduction,
obtaining tax advantages), anti-competitive economies of scope
(multipoint competition, market power advantages), and employee
incentives to maximize compensation. All these reasons for
diversifying, except diversifying to maximize management
compensation and (maybe) risk reduction, have the potential to
create economic value for a firm. Moreover, a firm’s outside equity
holders will find it costly to realize all these bases for diversification,
except risk reduction. Thus, diversifying to maximize management
compensation or diversifying to reduce risk is not consistent with the
wealth-maximizing interests of a firm’s equity holders.
The ability of a diversification strategy to create sustained
competitive advantages depends not only on the value of that
strategy, but also on its rarity and imitability. The rarity of a
diversification strategy depends on the number of competing firms
that are exploiting the same economies of scope through
diversification. Imitation can occur either through direct duplication or
through substitutes. Costly-to-duplicate economies of scope include
core competencies, internal capital allocation, multipoint competition,
and exploitation of market power. Other economies of scope are
usually less costly to duplicate. Important substitutes for
diversification are when relevant economies are obtained through
the independent actions of businesses within a firm and when
relevant economies are obtained through strategic alliances. This
discussion set aside important organizational issues in implementing
diversification strategies. These issues are examined in detail in the
next chapter.




       MyLab Management
       Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management to
       complete the problems marked with this icon .
Challenge Questions
   9.1. One simple way to think about relatedness is to look at
   the products or services a firm manufactures. The more
   similar these products or services are, the more related is the
   firm’s diversification strategy. Would firms that exploit core
   competencies in their diversification strategies always
   produce products or services that are like each other? Why or
   why not?
   9.2. A firm implementing a diversification strategy has just
   acquired what it claims is a strategically related target firm but
   announces that it is not going to change this recently acquired
   firm in any way. Would this type of diversifying acquisition
   enable the firm to realize any valuable economies of scope
   that could not be duplicated by outside investors on their
   own? Why or why not?
      9.3. One of the reasons why internal capital markets may
   be more efficient than external capital markets is that firms
   may not want to reveal full information about their sources of
   competitive advantage to external capital markets in order to
   reduce the threat of competitive imitation. This suggests that
   external capital markets may systematically undervalue firms
   with competitive advantages that are subject to imitation. If
   you agree with this analysis, how could you trade on this
   information in your own investment activities?
9.4. A firm is owned by members of a single family. Most of
the wealth of this family is derived from the operations of this
firm, and the family does not want to “go public” with the firm
by selling its equity position to outside investors. Will this firm
choose to pursue a highly related diversification strategy or a
somewhat less related diversification strategy?
   9.5. Under what conditions will a related diversification
strategy not be a source of competitive advantage for a firm?
Problem Set
  9.6. Visit the corporate Web sites for the following firms. How would
  you characterize the corporate strategies of these companies? Are
  they following a strategy of limited diversification, related
  diversification, or unrelated diversification?
      a. ExxonMobil
      b. Google
      c. General Motors
      d. JetBlue
      e. Citigroup
       f.   Entertainment Arts
      g.    IBM
      h.    Dell
       i.   Alphabet


  9.7. Consider the following list of strategies. In your view, which are
  examples of potential economies of scope underlying a corporate
  diversification strategy? For those strategies that are an economy of
  scope, which economy of scope are they? For those strategies that
  are not an economy of scope, why aren’t they?
       a. The Coca-Cola Corporation replaces its old diet cola drink
          (Tab) with a new diet cola drink called Diet Coke.
       b. Apple introduces an iPhone with a larger memory.
       c. PepsiCo distributes Lay’s Potato Chips to the same stores
          where it sells Pepsi.
       d. Wal-Mart uses the same distribution system to supply its Wal-
          Mart stores, its Wal-Mart Supercenters (Wal-Mart stores with
          grocery stores in them), and its Sam’s Clubs.
    e. Head Ski Company introduces a line of tennis rackets.
     f. General Electric borrows money from Bank of America at three
        percent interest and then makes capital available to its jet
       engine subsidiary at eight percent interest.
    g. McDonald’s acquires Boston Market and Chipotle (two
       restaurants where many customers sit in the restaurant to eat
       their meals).
    h. A venture capital firm invests in a firm in the biotechnology
       industry and a firm in the entertainment industry.
     i. Another venture capital firm invests in two firms in the
        biotechnology industry.

9.8. Consider the following facts. The standard deviation of the cash
flows associated with Business I is 0.8. The larger this standard
deviation, the riskier a business’s future cash flows are likely to be.
The standard deviation of the cash flows associated with Business II
is 1.3. That is, Business II is riskier than Business I. Finally, the
correlation between the cash flows of these two businesses over time
is 0.8. This means that when Business I is up, Business II tends to be
down, and vice versa. Suppose one firm owns both businesses.
    a. Assuming that Business I constitutes 40 percent of this firm’s
       revenues and Business II constitutes 60 percent of its
       revenues, calculate the riskiness of this firm’s total revenues
       using the following equation:

                      2   2             2    2
       sdI,II = √w sd         + (1 − w) sd        + 2w(1 − w)(rI,II sdI sdII )
                          I                  II




       Where w    = 0.40; sdI = 0.8, sdII = 1.3,         and rI,II   = −8.

    b. Given this result, does it make sense for this firm to own both
       Business I and Business II? Why or why not?
MyLab Management
Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management for Auto-
graded writing questions as well as the following Assisted-
graded writing questions:

         9.9. Not all firms will choose corporate diversification.
      Describe the benefits and challenges of the alternatives.
         9.10. Internal capital markets have several
      limitations. When a firm is confronted by these
      limitations, what is it likely to do?
End Notes
1    B. Fritz (2017) “ESPN’s struggles take toll on Disney,” Wall Street Journal, February 8,
2017, pp. B1    + ;   en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ESPN accessed September 15, 2013; AP Wide
World Photos.
2    www.pepsico.com/brands Accessed February 14, 2017
3    The Walt Disney Company. (1995). Harvard Business School Case No. 1-388-147.
4    H. P. Lang and R. M. Stulz (1994). “Tobin’s q, corporate diversification, and firm
performance.” Journal of Political Economy, 102, pp. 1248–1280; R. Comment and G.
Jarrell (1995). “Corporate focus and stock returns.” Journal of Financial Economics, 37, pp.
67–87; D. Miller (2006). “Technological diversity, related diversification, and firm
performance.” Strategic Management Journal, 27(7), pp. 601–620; B. Villalonga (2004).
“Does diversification cause the ‘diversification discount’?” Financial Management, 33(2), pp.
5–28; T. Mackey, J. Barney, and J. Dotson (2017) “Corporate diversification and the value of
individual firms: A Bayesian approach. Strategic Management Journal, 32(2): pp. 322–341.
5    See Rogers, A. (1992). “It’s the execution that counts.” Fortune, November 30, pp. 80–
83; and Porter, M. E. (1981). “Disposable diaper industry in 1974.” Harvard Business School
Case No. 9-380-175. A more general discussion of the value of shared activities can be
found in St. John, C. H., and J. S. Harrison. (1999). “Manufacturing-based relatedness,
synergy, and coordination.” Strategic Management Journal, 20, pp. 129–145.
6    See Fuchsberg, G. (1992). “Decentralized management can have its drawbacks.” The
Wall Street Journal, December 9, p. B1.
7    See about.att.com/story/att-completes-acquisition-of-DirectTV. Accessed
February 14, 2017.
8    de Lisser, E. (1993). “Catering to cooking-phobic customers, supermarkets stress
carryout.” The Wall Street Journal, April 5, p. B1.
9    See, for example, Davis, P., R. Robinson, J. Pearce, and S. Park. (1992). “Business
unit relatedness and performance: A look at the pulp and paper industry.” Strategic
Management Journal, 13, pp. 349–361.
10    Loomis, C. J. (1993). “Dinosaurs?” Fortune, May 3, pp. 36–42.
11      Rapoport, C. (1992). “A tough Swede invades the U.S.” Fortune, June 29, pp. 776–
779.
12      Prahalad, C. K., and G. Hamel. (1990). “The core competence of the organization.”
Harvard Business Review, 90, p. 82.
13      See also Grant, R. M. (1988). “On ‘dominant logic’ relatedness and the link between
diversity and performance.” Strategic Management Journal, 9, pp. 639–642; Chatterjee, S.,
and B. Wernerfelt. (1991). “The link between resources and type of diversification: Theory
and evidence.” Strategic Management Journal, 12, pp. 33–48; Constantinos C. Markides,
and P. J. Williamson. (1994). “Related diversification, core competencies, and corporate
performance.” Strategic Management Journal, 15, pp. 149–165; Montgomery, C. A., and B.
Wernerfelt. (1991). “Sources of superior performance: Market share versus industry effects
in the U.S. brewing industry.” Management Science, 37, pp. 954–959; Liedtka, J. M. (1996).
“Collaborating across lines of business for competitive advantage.” Academy of
Management Executive, 10(2), pp. 20–37; and Farjoun, M. (1998). “The independent and
joint effects of the skill and physical bases of relatedness in diversification.” Strategic
Management Journal, 19, pp. 611–630.
14      See Bartlett, C.A. and S. Ghoshal (1989) Managing Across Borders: The
Transnational Solution. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press.
15      Presentation by V. P. of Research and Development, General Electric Medical
Imaging Chinese Division, SMS Special Conference in Guangzhou, China, December,
2015.
16      10K report for Berkshire Hathaway; W. Buffet (2013). “An owner’s manual, revised.”
www.berkshirehathaway.com. Accessed July 26, 2013 and February 14, 2017,
17      Danaher Case, HBS
18      Prahalad, C. K., and R. A. Bettis. (1986). “The dominant logic: A new linkage
between diversity and performance.” Strategic Management Journal, 7(6), pp. 485–501.
19      See Williamson, O. E. (1975). Markets and hierarchies: Analysis and antitrust
implications. New York: Free Press.
20      Publically traded firms often have to be more forthcoming about both their
performance and prospects. However, even among these firms, managers may know more
about their firm’s performance and prospects than they say in public statements.
21      See Liebeskind, J. P. (1996). “Knowledge, strategy, and the theory of the firm.”
Strategic Management Journal, 17 (Winter Special Edition), pp. 93–107.
22    Perry, L. T., and J. B. Barney. (1981). “Performance lies are hazardous to
organizational health.” Organizational Dynamics, 9(3), pp. 68–80.
23    Bethel, J. E. (1990). The capital allocation process and managerial mobility: A
theoretical and empirical investigation. Unpublished doctoral dissertation, University of
California at Los Angeles.
24    Staw, B. M. (1981). “The escalation of commitment to a course of action.” Academy
of Management Review, 6, pp. 577–587.
25    See Comment, R., and G. Jarrell. (1995). “Corporate focus and stock returns.”
Journal of Financial Economics, 37, pp. 67–87; Berger, P. G., and E. Ofek. (1995).
“Diversification’s effect on firm value.” Journal of Financial Economics, 37, pp. 39–65;
Maksimovic, V., and G. Phillips. (1999). “Do conglomerate firms allocate resources
inefficiently?” Working paper, University of Maryland; Matsusaka, J. G., and V. Nanda.
(1998). “Internal capital markets and corporate refocusing.” Working paper, University of
Southern California; Palia, D. (1998). “Division-level overinvestment and agency conflicts in
diversified firms.” Working paper, Columbia University; Rajan, R., H. Servaes, and L.
Zingales. (1997). “The cost of diversity: The diversification discount and inefficient
investment.” Working paper, University of Chicago; Scharfstein, D. S. (1997). “The dark side
of internal capital markets II: Evidence from diversified conglomerates.” NBER [National
Bureau of Economic Research]. Working paper; Shin, H. H., and R. M. Stulz. (1998). “Are
internal capital markets efficient?” The Quarterly Journal of Economics, May, pp. 551–552.
But Houston and James (1998) show that internal capital markets can create competitive
advantages for firms: Houston, J., and C. James. (1998). “Some evidence that banks use
internal capital markets to lower capital costs.” Journal of Applied Corporate Finance, 11(2),
pp. 70–78.
26    Scott, J. H. (1977). “On the theory of conglomerate mergers.” Journal of Finance, 32,
pp. 1235–1250.
27    See Brennan, M. (1979). “The pricing of contingent claims in discrete time models.”
Journal of Finance, 34, pp. 53–68; Cox, J., S. Ross, and M. Rubinstein. (1979). “Option
pricing: A simplified approach.” Journal of Financial Economics, 7, pp. 229–263; Stapleton,
R. C. (1982). “Mergers, debt capacity, and the valuation of corporate loans.” In M. Keenan
and L. J. White. (eds.), Mergers and acquisitions. Lexington, MA: D. C. Heath, Chapter
2       ; and Galai, D., and R. W. Masulis. (1976). “The option pricing model and the risk
factor of stock.” Journal of Financial Economics, 3, pp. 53–82.
28    See Karnani, A., and B. Wernerfelt. (1985). “Multiple point competition.” Strategic
Management Journal, 6, pp. 87–96; Bernheim, R. D., and M. D. Whinston. (1990).
“Multimarket contact and collusive behavior.” Rand Journal of Economics, 12, pp. 605–617;
Tirole, J. (1988). The theory of industrial organization. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press; Gimeno,
J., and C. Y. Woo. (1999). “Multimarket contact, economies of scope, and firm
performance.” Academy of Management Journal, 43(3), pp. 239–259; Korn, H. J., and J. A.
C. Baum. (1999). “Chance, imitative, and strategic antecedents to multimarket contact.”
Academy of Management Journal, 42(2), pp. 171–193; Baum, J. A. C., and H. J. Korn.
(1999). “Dynamics of dyadic competitive interaction.” Strategic Management Journal, 20,
pp. 251–278; Gimeno, J. (1999). “Reciprocal threats in multimarket rivalry: Staking our
‘spheres of influence’ in the U.S. airline industry.” Strategic Management Journal, 20, pp.
101–128; Gimeno, J., and C. Y. Woo. (1996). “Hypercompetition in a multimarket
environment: The role of strategic similarity and multimarket contact in competitive de-
escalation.” Organization Science, 7(3), pp. 322–341; Ma, H. (1998). “Mutual forbearance in
international business.” Journal of International Management, 4(2), pp. 129–147; McGrath,
R. G., and M.-J. Chen. (1998). “Multimarket maneuvering in uncertain spheres of influence:
Resource diversion strategies.” Academy of Management Review, 23(4), pp. 724–740;
Chen, M.-J. (1996). “Competitor analysis and interfirm rivalry: Toward a theoretical
integration.” Academy of Management Review, 21(1), pp. 100–134; Chen, M.-J., and
K. Stucker. (1997). “Multinational management and multimarket rivalry: Toward a theoretical
development of global competition.” Academy of Management Proceedings 1997, pp. 2–6;
and Young, G., K. G. Smith, and C. M. Grimm. (1997). “Multimarket contact, resource
heterogeneity, and rivalrous firm behavior.” Academy of Management Proceedings 1997,
pp. 55–59. This idea was originally proposed by Edwards, C. D. (1955). “Conglomerate
bigness as a source of power.” In Business concentration and price policy. NBER
Conference Report. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
29    See Karnani, A., and B. Wernerfelt. (1985). “Multiple point competition.” Strategic
Management Journal, 6, pp. 87–96.
30    This was documented by Gimeno, J. (1994). “Multipoint competition, market rivalry
and firm performance: A test of the mutual forbearance hypothesis in the United States
airline industry, 1984–1988.” Unpublished doctoral dissertation, Purdue University.
31    The best work in this area has been done by Gimeno, J. (1994). “Multipoint
competition, market rivalry and firm performance: A test of the mutual forbearance
hypothesis in the United States airline industry, 1984–1988.” Unpublished doctoral
dissertation, Purdue University. See also Smith, F., and R. Wilson. (1995). “The predictive
validity of the Karnani and Wernerfelt model of multipoint competition.” Strategic
Management Journal, 16, pp. 143–160.
32       See M. Sengul and J. Gimeno (2013) “Constrained delegation: Limiting subsidiary’s
decision rights and resources in firms that compete across multiple industries,”
Administrative Science Quarterly,58(3): 425–471.
33       See Tirole, J. (1988). The theory of industrial organization. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
34       Carnevale, M. L. (1993). “Ring in the new: Telephone service seems on the brink of
huge innovations.” The Wall Street Journal, February 10, p. A1. SBC acquired the
remaining assets of the original AT&T and renamed the newly merged company AT&T.
35       See Russo, M. V. (1992). “Power plays: Regulation, diversification, and backward
integration in the electric utility industry.” Strategic Management Journal, 13, pp. 13–27.
Work by Jandik and Makhija (1999) indicates that when a regulated utility diversifies out of a
regulated industry, it often earns a more positive return than when an unregulated firm does
this. Jandik, T., and A. K. Makhija. (1999). “An empirical examination of the atypical
diversification practices of electric utilities: Internal capital markets and regulation.” Fisher
College of Business, Ohio State University, working paper (September). This work shows
that regulators have the effect of making a regulated firm’s internal capital market more
efficient. Differences between Russo’s (1992) findings and Jandik and Makhija’s (1999)
findings may have to do with when this work was done. Russo’s (1992) research may have
focused on a time period before regulatory agencies had learned how to improve a firm’s
internal capital market. However, even though Jandik and Makhija (1999) report positive
returns from regulated firms diversifying, these positive returns do not reflect the market
power advantages of these firms.
36       Finkelstein, S., and D. C. Hambrick. (1989). “Chief executive compensation: A study
of the intersection of markets and political processes.” Strategic Management Journal, 10,
pp. 121–134.
37       D. C. Korten (2001). When corporations rule the world, 2nd ed. Bloomfield, CT:
Kumarian Press; H. Demsetz (1973). “Industry structure, market rivalry, and public policy.”
Journal of Law and Economics, 16, pp. 1–9; J. Stiglitz (2007). Making globalization work.
New York: Norton; www.unrefugees.org Accessed February 16, 2017.
38       J. B. Barney (1991). “Firm resources and sustained competitive advantage.” Journal
of Management, 17, pp. 99–120; R. M. Stulz (1996). “Rethinking risk management.” Journal
of Applied Corporate Finance, Fall, pp. 8–24; K. Miller (1998). “Economic exposure and
integrated risk management,” Strategic Management Journal, 33, pp. 756–779; R. Amit and
B. Wernerfelt (1990). “Why do firms reduce business risk?” Academy of Management
Journal, 33, pp. 520–533; H. Wang and J. Barney (2006), “Employee incentives to make
firm specific investments: Implications for resource-based theories of diversification.”
Academy of Management Review, 31(2), pp. 466–476.
39    See M. Sengul and J. Gimeno (2013) “Constrained delegation: Limiting subsidiary’s
decision rights and resources in firms that compete across multiple industries,”
Administrative Science Quarterly, 58(3): 425–471.
Chapter 10 Organizing to
Implement Corporate
Diversification
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to:


               10.1 Describe the multidivisional, or M-form,
               organizational structure and the roles of the
               board of directors, institutional investors, the
               senior executive, corporate staff, division
               general managers, and shared activity managers
               in making the M-form structure work.
               10.2 Describe how three management control
               processes—measuring divisional performance,
               allocating corporate capital, and transferring
               intermediate products—are used to help
               implement a corporate diversification strategy.
               10.3 Describe the role of management
               compensation in helping to implement a
               corporate diversification strategy.
MyLab Management
  Improve Your Grade!


If your instructor is using MyLab Management, visit
www.pearson.com/mylab/management for
simulations, tutorials, and end-of-chapter problems.
Is It Soup Yet?




Incamerastock/Alamy Stock Photo




Google is one of the most successful companies in the world.
In 2016, it had over $167 billion in total assets—just a bit
smaller than the Gross Domestic Product of New Zealand. Its
market value of $578.43 billion in 2017 ranked it as the 22nd
largest economy in the world, just ahead of Sweden.

So, when one of the founders of Google—Larry Page—
announced on August 10, 2015 that Google was completely
reorganizing its businesses, it made headlines around the
world. Through a series of complicated transactions, Google
had become a wholly owned subsidiary of a new company
called Alphabet. Alphabet, in turn, was organized into two
divisions: Google, which included all the original Google’s
internet businesses, and Other Bets, a group of other
businesses in which the original Google had been investing
over a period of years.

Most of the products managed by the new Google division of
Alphabet were household names—Android, YouTube, Google
Search, Chrome, Maps, Gmail, and Google Play. Many had
over 1 billion users a month. Collectively, the Google Division
of Alphabet generated $89.5 billion in revenues in 2016—
99.1% of Alphabet’s total revenues. Most of the businesses
housed in the Other Bets division were not as well known—
including Nest (a “smart” home hardware company the
original Google bought in 2014 for $2.3 billion), Verily (a
business with the goal of integrating technology of various
kinds into health care), and Wamo (the original Google self-
driving car project). Collectively, businesses in Other Bets
generated 2016 revenues of $800 million, .9% of Alphabet’s
revenue.

From the creation of Alphabet, businesses in the Google
Division shared numerous capabilities including a common
technology infrastructure, a common revenue model
(advertising), and a commitment to making access to the web
as cheap as possible—often free. While the profitability of
some of the businesses within the Google Division may have
been calculable, it appeared that, strategically, Google’s
internet businesses were to be treated as a deeply
interconnected set of activities.

This was not the case in the Other Bets Division. Here, each
business was managed independently. Indeed, the only thing
these businesses seemed to share was a common
commitment to “moon shots”: high-risk, high-reward business
investments, presumably funded by the profits generated by
the Google Division. Because of their independence, it was
probably possible to calculate the profitability of each of the
businesses in the Other Bets Division. However, 18 months
after organizing Alphabet and the Other Bets Division,
Alphabet was still not reporting the profitability of the
businesses in its Other Bets Division.

Of course, it is possible that one or more of the businesses
within the Other Bets Division will hit it big, maybe becoming
as large as the Google Division. If that happens, it seems
likely that Alphabet will create the same kind of integrated
business model that exists in the Google Division for the
successful Other Bets business.1
This chapter is about how large diversified firms
—like Alphabet—are managed and governed
efficiently. The chapter explains how these kinds
of firms are managed in a way that is consistent
with the interests of their owners—equity
holders—as well as the interests of their other
stakeholders. The three components of
organizing to implement any strategy, which
were first identified in Chapter 3 —
organizational structure, management controls,
and compensation policy—are also important in
implementing corporate diversification
strategies.
Organizational Structure and
Implementing Corporate
Diversification
Objective 10.1 Describe the multidivisional, or M-form,
               organizational structure and the roles of the board of
               directors, institutional investors, the senior executive,
               corporate staff, division general managers, and
               shared activity managers in making the M-form
               structure work.


The most common organizational structure for implementing a
corporate diversification strategy is the M-form , or
multidivisional, structure. A typical M-form structure, as it would
appear in a firm’s annual report, is presented in Figure 10.1 . This
same structure is redrawn in Figure 10.2 to emphasize the roles
and responsibilities of each of the major components of the M-form
organization.2
Figure 10.1 An Example of M-Form Organizational Structure as
Depicted in a Firm’s Annual Report
Figure 10.2 An M-Form Structure Redrawn to Emphasize Roles
and Responsibilities


In the multidivisional structure, each business that the firm engages
in is managed through a division . Different firms have different
names for these divisions—strategic business units (SBUs),
business groups, companies. Whatever their names, the divisions in
an M-form organization are true profit-and-loss centers: Profits
and losses can be calculated at the level of the division in these
firms.


Different firms use different criteria for defining the boundaries of
profit-and-loss centers. For example, General Electric defines its
divisions in terms of the types of products each one manufactures
and sells (e.g., aviation, capital, energy management, and health
care). Nestlé defines its divisions with reference to the geographic
scope of each of its businesses (North America, South America, and
so forth). General Motors defines its divisions in terms of the brand
names of its products (Cadillac, Chevrolet, and so forth). However
they are defined, divisions in an M-form organization should be large
enough to represent identifiable business entities but small enough
so that each one can be managed effectively by a division general
manager. Indeed, each division in an M-form organization typically
adopts a U-form structure (see the discussion of the U-form structure
in Chapters 4    ,5    , and 6   ), and the division general manager
takes on the role of a U-form senior executive for his or her division.

In Alphabet, the Google Division is a classic profit and loss center,
although some of the businesses within the Google Division, e.g.,
Android, Google Search, may also be large enough and separate
enough as a business to calculate profit and losses for these
businesses as well. The Other Bets Division in Alphabet houses
businesses that may someday grow large enough to become full
profit and loss centers in Alphabet. However, by 2017, none of these
businesses had yet reached this scale of operations.
The M-form structure is designed to create checks and balances for
managers that increase the probability that a diversified firm will be
managed in ways consistent with the interests of its equity holders.
The roles of each of the major elements of the M-form structure in
accomplishing this objective are summarized in Table 10.1        and
discussed in the following text. Some of the conflicts of interest that
might emerge between a firm’s equity holders and its managers are
described in the Strategy in Depth feature.


Table 10.1 The Roles and Responsibilities of Major Components
of the M-Form Structure
The Board of Directors
One of the major components of an M-form organization is a firm’s
board of directors . In principle, all the firm’s senior managers
report to the board. The board’s primary responsibility is to monitor
decision making in the firm, ensuring that it is consistent with the
interests of outside equity holders.

A board of directors typically consists of 10 to 15 individuals drawn
from a firm’s top management group and from individuals outside the
firm. A firm’s senior executive (often identified by the title
president or chief executive officer or CEO), its chief financial officer
(CFO), and a few other senior managers are usually on the board—
although managers on the board are typically outnumbered by
outsiders. The firm’s senior executive is often, but not always, the
chairman of the board . The task of managerial board members
—including the board chair—is to provide other board members
information and insights about critical decisions being made in the
firm and the effect those decisions are likely to have on a firm’s
equity holders. The task of outsiders on the board is to evaluate the
past, current, and future performance of the firm and of its senior
managers to ensure that the actions taken in the firm are consistent
with equity holders’ interests.5
S T R AT E G Y I N D E P T H




Agency Conflicts Between Managers and Equity Holders

It is often in the self-interest of equity holders to delegate to
managers the day-to-day management of their equity
investments in a firm. This will be the case when equity
investors cannot realize a valuable economy of scope on their
own, while managers can realize that economy of scope (see
Chapter 9        ).
Several authors have suggested that whenever one party in
an exchange delegates decision-making authority to a second
party, an agency relationship       has been created between
these parties. The party delegating this decision-making
authority is called the principal   ; the party to whom this
authority is delegated is called the agent    . In the context of
corporate diversification, an agency relationship exists
between a firm’s outside equity holders (as principals) and its
managers (as agents) to the extent that equity holders
delegate the day-to-day management of their investment to
those managers.

The agency relationship between equity holders and
managers can be very effective if managers make investment
decisions that are consistent with equity holders’ interests.
Thus, if equity holders are interested in maximizing the rate of
return on their investment in a firm and if managers make
their investment decisions with this objective in mind, then
equity holders will have few concerns about delegating the
day-to-day management of their investments to managers.
However, in numerous situations the interests of a firm’s
outside equity holders and its managers do not coincide.
When parties in an agency relationship differ in their decision-
making objectives, agency problems           arise. Two common
agency problems have been identified: investment in
managerial perquisites and managerial risk aversion.

Managers may decide to take some of a firm’s capital and
invest it in managerial perquisites that do not add
economic value to the firm but do directly benefit those
managers. Examples of such investments include lavish
offices, fleets of corporate jets, and corporate vacation
homes. Dennis Kozlowski, former CEO of Tyco International,
is accused of “stealing” $600 million in these kinds of
managerial perquisites from his firm. The list of goods and
services that Kozlowski lavished on himself and those close
to him is truly astounding—a multimillion-dollar birthday party
for his wife, a $6,000 wastebasket, a $15,000 umbrella stand,
a $144,000 loan to a board member, toga-clad waiters at an
event, and so on.

As outrageous as some of these managerial perquisites can
be, the second source of agency problems—managerial risk
aversion     —is probably more important in most diversified
firms. As discussed in Chapter 9 , equity holders can
diversify their portfolio of investments at very low cost.
Through their diversification efforts, they can eliminate all
firm-specific risk in their portfolios. In this setting, equity
holders would prefer that managers make riskier rather than
less risky investments because the expected return on risky
investments is usually greater than the expected return on
less risky investments.

Managers, in contrast, have limited ability to diversify their
human capital investments in their firm. Some portion of these
investments is specific to a particular firm and has limited
value in alternative uses. The value of a manager’s human
capital investment in a firm depends critically on the
continued existence of the firm. Thus, managers are not
indifferent to the riskiness of investment opportunities in a
firm. Very risky investments may jeopardize a firm’s survival
and thus eliminate the value of a manager’s human capital
investments. These incentives can make managers more risk
averse in their decision making than equity holders would like
them to be.

One of the purposes of the M-form structure, and indeed of all
aspects of organizing to implement corporate diversification,
is to reduce these agency problems.3
R E S E A R C H M A D E R E L E VA N T
The Effectiveness of Boards of Directors

A great deal of research has tried to determine when boards
of directors are more or less effective in ensuring that firms
are managed in ways consistent with the interests of equity
holders. Three issues have received particular attention: (1)
the roles of insiders (i.e., managers) and outsiders on the
board; (2) whether the board chair and the senior executive
should be the same or different people; and (3) whether the
board should be active or passive.

With respect to insiders and outsiders on the board, in one
way this seems like a simple problem. Because the primary
role of the board of directors is to monitor managerial
decisions to ensure that they are consistent with the interests
of equity holders, it follows that the board should consist
primarily of outsiders because they face no conflict of interest
in evaluating managerial performance. Obviously, managers,
as inside members of the board, face significant conflicts of
interest in evaluating their own performance.

Research on outsider members of boards of directors tends
to support this point of view. Outside directors, as compared
with insiders, tend to focus more on monitoring a firm’s
economic performance than on other measures of firm
performance. Obviously, a firm’s economic performance is
most relevant to its equity investors. Outside board members
are also more likely than inside members to dismiss CEOs for
poor performance. Also, outside board members have a
stronger incentive than inside members to maintain their
reputations as effective monitors. This incentive by itself can
lead to more effective monitoring by outside board members.
Moreover, the monitoring effectiveness of outside board
members seems to be enhanced when they personally own a
substantial amount of a firm’s equity.

However, the fact that outside members face fewer conflicts
of interest in evaluating managerial performance compared
with management insiders on the board does not mean that
there is no appropriate role for inside board members.
Managers bring something to the board that cannot be easily
duplicated by outsiders—detailed information about the
decision-making activities inside the firm. This is precisely the
information that outsiders need to effectively monitor the
activities of a firm, and it is information available to them only
if they work closely with insiders (managers). One way to gain
access to this information is to include managers as members
of the board of directors. Thus, while most research suggests
that a board of directors should be composed primarily of
outsiders, there is an important role for insiders/managers to
play as members of a firm’s board.

There is currently some debate about whether the roles of
board chair and CEO should be combined or separated and,
if separated, what kinds of people should occupy these
positions. Some have argued that the roles of CEO and board
chair should definitely be separated and that the role of the
chair should be filled by an outside (non-managerial) member
of the board of directors. These arguments assume that only
an outside member of the board can ensure the independent
monitoring of managerial decision making. Others have
argued that effective monitoring often requires more
information than would be available to outsiders, and thus the
roles of board chair and CEO should be combined and filled
by a firm’s senior manager.

Empirical research on this question suggests that whether
these roles of CEO and chair should be combined depends
on the complexity of the information analysis and monitoring
task facing the CEO and board chair. Brian Boyd has found
that combining the roles of CEO and chair is positively
correlated with firm performance when firms operate in slow-
growth and simple competitive environments—environments
that do not overtax the cognitive capability of a single
individual. This finding suggests that combining these roles
does not necessarily increase conflicts between a firm and its
equity holders. This research also found that separating the
roles of CEO and board chair is positively correlated with firm
performance when firms operate in high-growth and very
complex environments. In such environments, a single
individual cannot fulfill all the responsibilities of both CEO and
board chair, and thus the two roles need to be held by
separate individuals.

Finally, with respect to active versus passive boards,
historically the boards of major firms have been relatively
passive and would take dramatic action, such as firing the
   senior executive, only if a firm’s performance was significantly
   below expectations for long periods of time. However, more
   recently, boards have become more active proponents of
   equity holders’ interests. This recent surge in board activity
   reflects a new economic reality: if a board does not become
   more active in monitoring firm performance, then other
   monitoring mechanisms will. Consequently, the board of
   directors has become progressively more influential in
   representing the interests of a firm’s equity holders.

   However, board activity can go too far. To the extent that the
   board begins to operate a business on a day-to-day basis, it
   goes beyond its capabilities. Boards rarely have sufficient
   detailed information to manage a firm directly. When it is
   necessary to change a firm’s senior executive, boards will
   usually not take on the responsibilities of that executive, but
   rather will rapidly identify a single individual—either an insider
   or outsider—to take over this position.4


Boards of directors are typically organized into several
subcommittees. An audit committee         is responsible for ensuring
the accuracy of accounting and financial statements. A finance
committee maintains the relationship between the firm and
external capital markets. A nominating committee           nominates
new board members. A personnel and compensation
committee     evaluates and compensates the performance of a
firm’s senior executive and other senior managers. Often,
membership on these standing committees is reserved for external
board members. Other standing committees reflect specific issues
for a particular firm and are typically open to external and internal
board members.6


Over the years, a great deal of research has been conducted about
the effectiveness of boards of directors in ensuring that a firm’s
managers make decisions in ways consistent with the interests of its
equity holders. Some of this work is summarized in the Research
Made Relevant feature.
Institutional Owners
Historically, the typical large diversified firm has had its equity owned
in small blocks by millions of individual investors. The exception to
this general rule was family-owned or dominated firms, a
phenomenon that is relatively more common outside the United
States. When a firm’s ownership is spread among millions of small
investors, it is difficult for any one of these investors to have a large
enough ownership position to influence management decisions
directly. The only course of action open to such investors if they
disagree with management decisions is to sell their stock.


However, the growth of institutional owners has changed the
ownership structure of many large diversified firms over the past
several years. Institutional owners       are usually pension funds,
mutual funds, insurance companies, or other groups of individual
investors that have joined together to manage their investments. In
1970, institutions owned 32 percent of the equity traded in the United
States. By 1990, institutions owned 48 percent of this equity. In
2005, they owned 59 percent of all equity traded in the United States
and 69 percent of the equity of the 1,000 largest firms in the United
States.7


Institutional investors can use their investment clout to insist that a
firm’s management behaves in ways consistent with the interests of
equity holders. Observers who assume that institutional investors are
interested more in maximizing the short-term value of their portfolios
than in the long-term performance of firms in those portfolios fear
that such power will force firms to make only short-term investments.
Research in the United States and Japan, however, suggests that
institutional investors are not unduly myopic. Rather, as suggested
earlier, these investors use approximately the same logic equity
investors use when evaluating the performance of a firm. For
example, one group of researchers examined the impact of
institutional ownership on research and development investments in
research and development (R&D)-intensive industries. R&D
investments tend to be longer term in orientation. If institutional
investors are myopic, they should influence firms to invest in
relatively less R&D in favor of investments that generate shorter-
term profits. This research showed that high levels of institutional
ownership did not adversely affect the level of R&D in a firm. These
findings are consistent with the notion that institutional investors are
not inappropriately concerned with the short term in their monitoring
activities.8


More generally, other researchers have shown that high levels of
institutional ownership lead firms to sell businesses that do not share
an economy of scope. This effect of institutional investors is
enhanced if, in addition, outside directors on a firm’s board have
substantial equity investments in the firm. Given the discussion of
the value of diversification in Chapter 9 , it seems clear that these
divestment actions are typically consistent with maximizing the
present value of a firm.9
The Senior Executive
As suggested in Table 10.1      , the senior executive (the president or
CEO) in an M-form organization has two responsibilities: strategy
formulation and strategy implementation. Strategy formulation entails
deciding which set of businesses a diversified firm will operate in;
strategy implementation focuses on encouraging behavior in a firm
that is consistent with this strategy. Each of these responsibilities of
the senior executive is discussed in turn.
Strategy Formulation
At the broadest level, deciding which businesses a diversified firm
should operate in is equivalent to discovering and developing
valuable economies of scope among a firm’s current and potential
businesses. If these economies of scope are also rare and costly to
imitate, they can be a source of sustained competitive advantage for
a diversified firm.


The senior executive is uniquely positioned to discover, develop, and
nurture valuable economies of scope in a diversified firm. Every
other manager in this kind of firm either has a divisional point of view
(e.g., division general managers and shared activity managers) or is
a functional specialist (e.g., corporate staff and functional managers
within divisions). Only the senior executive has a truly corporate
perspective. However, the senior executive in an M-form
organization should involve numerous other divisional and functional
managers in strategy formulation to ensure complete and accurate
information as input to the process and a broad understanding of
and commitment to that strategy once it has been formulated.
Strategy Implementation
As is the case for senior executives in a U-form structure, strategy
implementation in an M-form structure almost always involves
resolving conflicts among groups of managers. However, instead of
simply resolving conflicts between functional managers (as is the
case in a U-form), senior executives in M-form organizations must
resolve conflicts within and between each of the major managerial
components of the M-form structure: corporate staff, division general
managers, and shared activity managers. Various corporate staff
managers may disagree about the economic relevance of their staff
functions, corporate staff may come into conflict with division general
managers over various corporate programs and activities, division
general managers may disagree with how capital is allocated across
divisions, division general managers may come into conflict with
shared activity managers about how shared activities should be
managed, shared activity managers may disagree with corporate
staff about their mutual roles and responsibilities, and so forth.


Obviously, the numerous and often conflicting relationships among
groups of managers in an M-form organization can place significant
strategy implementation burdens on the senior executive.10 While
resolving these numerous conflicts, however, the senior executive
needs to keep in mind the reasons why the firm began pursuing a
diversification strategy in the first place: to exploit real economies of
scope that outside investors cannot realize on their own. Any
strategy implementation decisions that jeopardize the realization of
these real economies of scope are inconsistent with the underlying
strategic objectives of a diversified firm. These issues are analyzed
in detail later in this chapter, in the discussion of management
control systems in the M-form organization.


The Office of the President: Board Chair,
CEO, and COO
It is often the case that the roles and responsibilities of the senior
executive in an M-form organization are greater than can be
reasonably managed by a single individual. This is especially likely if
a firm is broadly diversified across numerous complex products and
markets. In this situation, it is not uncommon for the tasks of the
senior executive to be divided among two or three people: the board
chair     , the chief executive officer (CEO)     , and the chief
operating officer (COO)      . The primary responsibilities of each of
these roles in an M-form organization are listed in Table 10.2       .
Together, these roles are known as the office of the president . In
general, as the tasks facing the office of the president become more
demanding and complex, the more likely it is that the roles and
responsibilities of this office will be divided among two or three
people.


Table 10.2 Responsibilities of Three Different Roles in the Office
of the President
Corporate Staff
The primary responsibility of corporate staff      is to provide
information about the firm’s external and internal environments to the
firm’s senior executive. This information is vital for both the strategy
formulation and the strategy implementation responsibilities of the
senior executive. Corporate staff functions that provide information
about a firm’s external environment include finance, investor
relations, legal affairs, regulatory affairs, and corporate advertising.
Corporate staff functions that provide information about a firm’s
internal environment include accounting and corporate human
resources. These corporate staff functions report directly to a firm’s
senior executive and are a conduit of information to that executive.
Corporate and Divisional Staff
Many organizations recreate some corporate staff functions within
each division of the organization. This is particularly true for
internally oriented corporate staff functions such as accounting and
human resources. At the division level, divisional staff managers
usually have a direct “solid-line” reporting relationship to their
respective corporate staff functional managers and a less formal
“dotted-line” reporting relationship to their division general manager.
The reporting relationship between the divisional staff manager and
the corporate staff manager is the link that enables the corporate
staff manager to collect the information that the senior executive
requires for strategy formulation and implementation. The senior
executive can also use this corporate staff/division staff relationship
to communicate corporate policies and procedures to the divisions,
although these policies can also be communicated directly by the
senior executive to division general managers.


Although divisional staff managers usually have a less formal
relationship with their division general managers, in practice division
general managers can have an important influence on the activities
of divisional staff. After all, divisional staff managers may formally
report to corporate staff managers, but they spend most of their time
interacting with their division general managers and with the other
functional managers who report to their division general managers.
These divided loyalties can sometimes affect the timeliness and
accuracy of the information transmitted from divisional staff
managers to corporate staff managers and thus affect the timeliness
and accuracy of the information the senior executive uses for
strategy formulation and implementation.


Nowhere are these divided loyalties potentially more problematic
than in accounting staff functions. Obviously, it is vitally important for
the senior executive in an M-form organization to receive timely and
accurate information about divisional performance. If the timeliness
and accuracy of that information are inappropriately affected by
division general managers, the effectiveness of senior management
can be adversely affected. Moreover, in some situations division
general managers can have very strong incentives to affect the
timeliness and accuracy of divisional performance information,
especially if a division general manager’s compensation depends on
this information or if the capital allocated to a division depends on
this information.


Efficient monitoring by the senior executive requires that corporate
staff, and especially the accounting corporate staff function, remains
organizationally independent of division general managers—thus,
the importance of the solid-line relationship between divisional staff
managers and corporate staff managers. Nevertheless, the ability of
corporate staff to obtain accurate performance information from
divisions also depends on close cooperative working relationships
between corporate staff, divisional staff, and division general
managers—hence, the importance of the dotted-line relationship
between divisional staff managers and division general managers.
How one maintains the balance between the distance and objectivity
needed to evaluate a division’s performance on the one hand, and,
on the other hand, the cooperation and teamwork needed to gain
access to the information required to evaluate a division’s
performance distinguishes excellent from mediocre corporate staff
managers.
Overinvolvement in Managing Division
Operations
Over and above the failure to maintain a balance between objectivity
and cooperation in evaluating divisional performance, the one sure
way that corporate staff can fail in a multidivisional firm is to become
too involved in the day-to-day operations of divisions. In an M-form
structure, the management of such day-to-day operations is
delegated to division general managers and to functional managers
who report to division general managers. Corporate staff managers
collect and transmit information; they do not manage divisional
operations.


One way to ensure that corporate staff does not become too
involved in managing the day-to-day operations of divisions is to
keep corporate staff small. This is certainly true for some of the best-
managed diversified firms in the world including Berkshire Hathaway,
with only 24 employees at corporate headquarters, but 288,500
employees worldwide. Only 1.5 percent of Johnson & Johnson’s
more than 80,000 employees work at the firm’s headquarters, and
only some of those individuals are members of the corporate staff.
Hanson Industries has in its U.S. headquarters 120 people who help
manage a diversified firm with $8 billion in revenues. Clayton,
Dubilier, and Rice, a management buyout firm, has only 11
headquarters staff members overseeing eight businesses with
collective sales of more than $6 billion.11
Division General Manager
Division general managers in an M-form organization have primary
responsibility for managing a firm’s businesses from day to day.
Division general managers have full profit-and-loss responsibility and
typically have multiple functional managers reporting to them. As
general managers, they have both strategy formulation and strategy
implementation responsibilities. On the strategy formulation side,
division general managers choose strategies for their divisions,
within the broader strategic context established by the senior
executive of the firm. Many of the analytical tools described in Parts
1   and 2     of this book can be used by division general managers
to make these strategy formulation decisions.


The strategy implementation responsibilities of division general
managers in an M-form organization parallel the strategy
implementation responsibilities of senior executives in U-form
organizations. In particular, division general managers must be able
to coordinate the activities of often-conflicting functional managers in
order to implement a division’s strategies.


In addition to their responsibilities as a U-form senior executive,
division general managers in an M-form organization have two
additional responsibilities: to compete for corporate capital and to
cooperate with other divisions to exploit corporate economies of
scope. Division general managers compete for corporate capital by
promising high rates of return on capital invested by the corporation
in their business. In most firms, divisions that have demonstrated the
ability to generate high rates of return on earlier capital investments
gain access to more capital or to lower-cost capital, compared with
divisions that have not demonstrated a history of such performance.

Division general managers cooperate to exploit economies of scope
by working with shared activity managers, corporate staff managers,
and the senior executive in the firm to isolate, understand, and use
the economies of scope around which the diversified firm was
originally organized. Division general managers can even become
involved in discovering new economies of scope that were not
anticipated when the firm’s diversification strategy was originally
implemented but nevertheless may be both valuable and costly for
outside investors to create on their own.


Of course, a careful reader will recognize a fundamental conflict
between the last two responsibilities of division general managers in
an M-form organization. These managers are required to compete
for corporate capital and to cooperate to exploit economies of scope
at the same time. Competition is important because it leads division
general managers to focus on generating high levels of economic
performance from their divisions. If each division is generating high
levels of economic performance, then the diversified firm as a whole
is likely to do well also. However, cooperation is important to exploit
economies of scope that are the economic justification for
implementing a diversification strategy in the first place. If divisions
do not cooperate in exploiting these economies, there are few, if any,
justifications for implementing a corporate diversification strategy,
and the diversified firm should be split into multiple independent
entities. The need to simultaneously compete and cooperate puts
significant managerial burdens on division general managers. It is
likely that this ability is both rare and costly to imitate across most
diversified firms.12
Shared Activity Managers
One of the potential economies of scope identified in Chapter 9
was shared activities. Divisions in an M-form organization exploit this
economy of scope when one or more of the stages in their value
chains are managed in common. Typical examples of activities
shared across two or more divisions in a multidivisional firm include
common sales forces, common distribution systems, common
manufacturing facilities, and common research and development
efforts (also see Table 9.2 ). The primary responsibility of the
individuals who manage shared activities is to support the operations
of the divisions that share the activity.


The way in which M-form structure is often depicted in company
annual reports (as in Figure 10.1      ) tends to obscure the
operational role of shared activities. In this version of the M-form
organizational chart, no distinctions are made between corporate
staff functions and shared activity functions. Moreover, it appears
that managers of shared activities report directly to a firm’s senior
executive, just like corporate staff. These ambiguities are resolved
by redrawing the M-form organizational chart to emphasize the roles
and responsibilities of different units within the M-form (as in Figure
10.2   ). In this more accurate representation of how an M-form
actually functions, corporate staff groups are separated from shared
activity managers, and each is shown reporting to its primary
“internal customer.” That “internal customer” is the senior executive
for corporate staff groups and two or more division general
managers for shared activity managers.


Shared Activities as Cost Centers
Shared activities are often managed as cost centers in an M-form
structure. That is, rather than having profit-and-loss responsibility,
cost centers      are assigned a budget and manage their operations
to that budget. When this is the case, shared activity managers do
not attempt to create profits when they provide services to the
divisions they support. Rather, these services are priced to internal
customers in such a way that the shared activity just covers its cost
of operating.


Because cost center shared activities do not have to generate profits
from their operations, the cost of the services they provide to
divisions can be less than the cost of similar services provided either
by a division itself or by outside suppliers. If a shared activity is
managed as a cost center, and the cost of services from this shared
activity is greater than the cost of similar services provided by
alternative sources, then either this shared activity is not being well
managed or it was not a real economy of scope in the first place.
However, when the cost of services from a shared activity is less
than the cost of comparable services provided by a division itself or
by an outside supplier, then division general managers have a strong
incentive to use the services of shared activities, thereby exploiting
an economy of scope that may have been one of the original
reasons why a firm implemented a corporate diversification strategy.
Shared Activities as Profit Centers
Some diversified firms are beginning to manage shared activities as
profit centers, rather than as cost centers. Moreover, rather than
requiring divisions to use the services of shared activities, divisions
retain the right to purchase services from internal shared activities or
from outside suppliers or to provide services for themselves. In this
setting, managers of shared activities are required to compete for
their internal customers based on the price and quality of the
services they provide.13


One firm that has taken this profit-center approach to managing
shared activities is ABB, Inc., a Swiss engineering firm. ABB
eliminated almost all of its corporate staff and reorganized its
remaining staff functions into shared activities. Shared activities in
ABB compete to provide services to ABB divisions. Not only do
some traditional shared activities—such as research and
development and sales—compete for internal customers, but many
traditional corporate staff functions—such as human resources,
marketing, and finance—do as well. ABB’s approach to managing
shared activities has resulted in a relatively small corporate staff and
in increasingly specialized and customized shared activities.14


Of course, the greatest risk associated with treating shared activities
as profit centers and letting them compete for divisional customers is
that divisions may choose to obtain no services or support from
shared activities. Although this course of action may be in the self-
interest of each division, it may not be in the best interest of the
corporation as a whole if, in fact, shared activities are an important
economy of scope around which the diversified firm is organized.


In the end, the task facing the managers of shared activities is the
same: to provide such highly customized and high-quality services to
divisional customers at a reasonable cost that those internal
customers will not want to seek alternative suppliers outside the firm
or provide those services themselves. In an M-form organization, the
best way to ensure that shared activity economies of scope are
realized is for shared activity managers to satisfy their internal
customers.


This discussion of the importance of shared activities in realizing
some economies of scope in diversified firms does not presume that
every diversified firm must use shared activities as an economy of
scope. As shown in Table 9.3      , there are many economies of
scope in a diversified firm that do not rely on shared activities.
Indeed, Alphabet is an example of a diversified corporation where
one division—the Google Division—uses shared activities as an
economy of scope and where another—the Other Bets Division—
does not.
Management Controls and Implementing
Corporate Diversification
Objective 10.2 Describe how three management control processes—measuring
               divisional performance, allocating corporate capital, and
               transferring intermediate products—are used to help implement a
               corporate diversification strategy.

The M-form structure presented in Figures 10.1 and 10.2 is complex and
multifaceted. However, no organizational structure by itself can fully implement a
corporate diversification strategy. The M-form structure must be supplemented with
a variety of management controls. Three of the most important management
controls in an M-form structure—systems for evaluating divisional performance, for
allocating capital across divisions, and for transferring intermediate products
between divisions—are discussed in this section.15
Evaluating Divisional Performance
Because divisions in an M-form structure are profit-and-loss centers, evaluating
divisional performance should, in principle, be straightforward: Divisions that are
very profitable should be evaluated more positively than divisions that are less
profitable. In practice, this seemingly simple task is surprisingly complex. Two
problems typically arise: (1) How should division profitability be measured; and (2)
How should economy-of-scope linkages between divisions be factored into
divisional performance measures.
Measuring Divisional Performance
Divisional performance can be measured in at least two ways. The first focuses on
a division’s accounting performance; the second on a division’s economic
performance.
Accounting Measures of Divisional Performance
Both accounting and economic measures of performance can be used in
measuring the performance of divisions within a diversified firm. Common
accounting measures of divisional performance include the return on the assets
controlled by a division, the return on a division’s sales, and a division’s sales
growth. These accounting measures of divisional performance are then compared
with some standard to see if a division’s performance exceeds or falls short of that
standard. Diversified firms use three different standards of comparison when
evaluating the performance of a division: (1) a hurdle rate that is common across
all the different business units in a firm; (2) a division’s budgeted level of
performance (which may vary by division); and (3) the average level of profitability
of firms in a division’s industry.

Each of these standards of comparison has its strengths and weaknesses. For
example, if a corporation has a single hurdle rate of profitability that all divisions
must meet or exceed, there is little ambiguity about the performance objectives of
divisions. However, a single standard ignores important differences in performance
that might exist across divisions.

Comparing a division’s actual performance to its budgeted performance allows the
performance expectations of different divisions to vary, but the budgeting process
is time-consuming and fraught with political intrigue. One study showed that
corporate managers routinely discount the sales projections and capital requests
of division managers on the assumption that division managers are trying to
“game” the budgeting system.16 Moreover, division budgets are usually based on a
single set of assumptions about how the economy is going to evolve, how
competition in a division’s industry is going to evolve, and what actions that division
is going to take in its industry. When these assumptions no longer hold, budgets
are redone—a costly and time-consuming process that has little to do with
generating value in a firm.


Finally, although comparing a division’s performance with the average level of
profitability of firms in a division’s industry also allows performance expectations to
vary across divisions within a diversified firm, this approach lets other firms
determine what is and is not excellent performance for a division within a
diversified firm. This approach can also be manipulated—by choosing just the
“right” firms with which to compare a division’s performance, almost any division
can be made to look like it’s performing better than its industry average.17


No matter what standard of comparison is used to evaluate a division’s accounting
performance, most accounting measures of divisional performance have a
common limitation. All these measures have a short-term bias. This short-term bias
reflects the fact that all these measures treat investments in resources and
capabilities that have the potential for generating value in the long run as costs
during a particular year. To reduce costs in a given year, division managers may
sometimes forgo investing in these resources and capabilities, even if they could
be a source of sustained competitive advantage for a division in the long run.
Economic Measures of Divisional Performance
Given the limitations of accounting measures of divisional performance, several
firms have begun adopting economic methods of evaluating this performance.
Economic methods build on accounting methods but adjust those methods to
incorporate short-term investments that may generate long-term benefits.
Economic methods also compare a division’s performance with a firm’s cost of
capital (see Chapter 1     ). This avoids some of the gaming that can characterize
the use of other standards of comparison in applying accounting measures of
divisional performance.


Perhaps the most popular of these economically oriented measures of division
performance is known as economic value added (EVA)           .18 EVA is calculated by
subtracting the cost of capital employed in a division from that division’s earnings
in the following manner:

                    EVA= adjusted accounting earnings

(weighted average cost of capital× total capital employed by a division)




Several of the terms in the EVA formula require some discussion. For example, the
calculation of economic value added begins with a division’s “adjusted” accounting
earnings. These are a division’s traditional accounting earnings, adjusted so that
they approximate a division’s economic earnings. Several adjustments to a
division’s accounting statements have been described in the literature. For
example, traditional accounting practices require R&D spending to be deducted
each year from a division’s earnings. This can lead division general managers to
under-invest in longer-term R&D efforts. In the EVA measure of divisional
performance, R&D spending is added back into a division’s performance, and R&D
is then treated as an asset and depreciated over some period.


One consulting firm (Stern Stewart) that specializes in implementing EVA-based
divisional evaluation systems in multidivisional firms makes up to 40 “adjustments”
to a division’s standard accounting earnings so that they more closely approximate
economic earnings. Many of these adjustments are proprietary to this consulting
firm. However, the most important adjustments—such as how R&D should be
treated—are broadly known.

The terms in parentheses in the EVA equation reflect the cost of investing in a
division. Rather than using some alternative standard of comparison, EVA applies
financial theory and multiplies the amount of money invested in a division by a
firm’s weighted average cost of capital. A firm’s weighted average cost of capital is
the amount of money a firm could earn if it invested in any of its other divisions. In
this sense, a firm’s weighted average cost of capital can be thought of as the
opportunity cost of investing in a particular division, as opposed to investing in any
other division in the firm.

By adjusting a division’s earnings and accounting for the cost of investing in a
division, EVA is a much more accurate estimate of a division’s economic
performance than are traditional accounting measures of performance. The
number of diversified firms evaluating their divisions with EVA-based measures of
divisional performance is impressive and growing. These firms include AT&T,
Coca-Cola, Quaker Oats, CSX, Briggs and Stratton, and Allied Signal. At Allied
Signal, divisions that do not earn their cost of capital are awarded the infamous
“leaky bucket” award. If this performance is not improved, division general
managers are replaced. The use of EVA has been touted as the key to creating
economic wealth in a diversified corporation.19
Economies of Scope and the Ambiguity of
Divisional Performance
Whether a firm uses accounting measures to evaluate the performance of a
division or uses economic measures of performance such as EVA, divisional
performance in a well-managed diversified firm can never be evaluated
unambiguously. Consider a simple example.


Suppose that in a particular multidivisional firm there are only two divisions
(Division A and Division B) and one shared activity (R&D). Also, suppose that the
two divisions are managed as profit-and-loss centers and that the R&D shared
activity is managed as a cost center. To support this R&D effort, each division pays
$10 million per year and has been doing so for 10 years. Finally, suppose that after
10 years of effort (and investment) the R&D group develops a valuable new
technology that perfectly addresses Division A’s business needs.


Obviously, no matter how divisional performance is measured, it is likely to be the
case that Division A’s performance will rise relative to Division B’s performance. In
this situation, what percentage of Division A’s improved performance should be
allocated to Division A, what percentage should be allocated to the R&D group,
and what percentage should be allocated to Division B?


The managers in each part of this diversified firm can make compelling arguments
in their favor. Division general manager A can reasonably argue that without
Division A’s efforts to exploit the new technology, the full value of the technology
would never have been realized. The R&D manager can reasonably argue that,
without the R&D effort, there would not have been a technology to exploit in the
first place. Finally, division general manager B can reasonably argue that, without
the dedicated long-term investment of Division B in R&D, there would have been
no new technology and no performance increase for Division A.


That all three of these arguments can be made suggests that, to the extent that a
firm exploits real economies of scope in implementing a diversification strategy, it
will not be possible to unambiguously evaluate the performance of individual
divisions in that firm. The fact that there are economies of scope in a diversified
firm means that all the businesses a firm operates in are more valuable bundled
together than they would be if kept separate from one another. Efforts to evaluate
the performance of these businesses as if they were separate from one another
are futile.


One solution to this problem is to force businesses in a diversified firm to operate
independently of each other. If each business operates independently, then it will
be possible to unambiguously evaluate its performance. Of course, to the extent
that this independence is enforced, the diversified firm is unlikely to be able to
realize the very economies of scope that were the justification for the diversification
strategy in the first place.


Divisional performance ambiguity is bad enough when shared activities are the
primary economy of scope that a diversified firm is trying to exploit. This ambiguity
increases dramatically when the economy of scope is based on intangible core
competencies. In this situation, it is shared learning and experience that justify a
firm’s diversification efforts. The intangible nature of these economies of scope
multiplies the difficulty of the divisional evaluation task.


Even firms that apply rigorous EVA measures of divisional performance are unable
to fully resolve these performance ambiguity difficulties. For example, the Coca-
Cola division of the Coca-Cola Company has made enormous investments in the
Coke brand name over the years, and the Diet Coke division has exploited some
of that brand name capital in its own marketing efforts. Of course, it is not clear that
all of Diet Coke’s success can be attributed to the Coke brand name. After all, Diet
Coke has developed its own creative advertising, its own loyal group of customers,
and so forth. How much of Diet Coke’s success—as measured through that
division’s economic value added—should be allocated to the Coke brand name (an
investment made long before Diet Coke was even conceived), and how much
should be allocated to the Diet Coke division’s efforts? EVA measures of divisional
performance do not resolve ambiguities created when economies of scope exist
across divisions.20
In the end, the quantitative evaluation of divisional performance—with either
accounting or economic measures—must be supplemented by the experience and
judgment of senior executives in a diversified firm. Only by evaluating a division’s
performance numbers in the context of a broader, more subjective evaluation of
the division’s performance can a true picture of divisional performance be
developed.
Allocating Corporate Capital
Another potentially valuable economy of scope outlined in Chapter 7           (besides
shared activities and core competencies) is internal capital allocation. In that
discussion, it was suggested that for internal capital allocation to be a justification
for diversification the information made available to senior executives allocating
capital in a diversified firm must be superior, in both amount and quality, to the
information available to external sources of capital in the external capital market.
Both the quality and the quantity of the information available in an internal capital
market depend on the organization of the diversified firm.


One of the primary limitations of internal capital markets is that division general
managers have a strong incentive to overstate their division’s prospects and
understate its problems to gain access to more capital at lower costs. Having an
independent corporate accounting function in a diversified firm can help address
this problem. However, given the ambiguities inherent in evaluating divisional
performance in a well-managed diversified firm, independent corporate
accountants do not resolve all these informational problems.


In the face of these challenges, some firms use a process called zero-based
budgeting to help allocate capital. In zero-based budgeting, corporate
executives create a list of all capital allocation requests from divisions in a firm,
rank them from “most important” to “least important,” and then fund all the projects
a firm can afford, given the amount of capital it has available. In principle, no
project will receive funding for the future simply because it received funding in the
past. Rather, each project must stand on its own merits each year by being
included among the important projects the firm can afford to fund.

Although zero-based budgeting has some attractive features, it has some
important limitations as well. For example, evaluating and ranking all projects in a
diversified firm from “most important” to “least important” is a very difficult task. It
requires corporate executives to have a very complete understanding of the
strategic role of each of the projects being proposed by a division, as well as an
understanding of how these projects will affect the short-term performance of
divisions.


In the end, no matter what process firms use to allocate capital, allocating capital
inside a firm in a way that is more efficient than could be done by external capital
markets requires the use of information that is not available to those external
markets. Typically, that information will be intangible, tacit, and complex. Corporate
managers looking to realize this economy of scope must find a way to use this kind
of information effectively.21 The difficulty of managing this process effectively may
be one of the reasons why internal capital allocation often fails to qualify as a
valuable economy of scope in diversified firms.22
Transferring Intermediate Products
The existence of economies of scope across multiple divisions in a diversified firm
often means that products or services produced in one division are used as inputs
for products or services produced by a second division. Such products or services
are called intermediate products or services       . Intermediate products or
services can be transferred between any of the units in an M-form organization.
This transfer is perhaps most important and problematic when it occurs between
profit center divisions.

The transfer of intermediate products or services among divisions is usually
managed through a transfer-pricing system         : One division “sells” its product or
service to a second division for a transfer price. Unlike a market price, which is
typically determined by market forces of supply and demand, transfer prices are
set by a firm’s corporate management to accomplish corporate objectives.
Setting Optimal Transfer Prices
From an economic point of view, the rule for establishing the optimal transfer price
in a diversified firm is quite simple: the transfer price should be the value of the
opportunities forgone when one division’s product or service is transferred to
another division. Consider the following example. Division A’s marginal cost of
production is $5 per unit, but Division A can sell all its output to outside customers
for $6 per unit. If Division A can sell all its output to outside customers for $6 per
unit, the value of the opportunity forgone of transferring a unit of production from
Division A to Division B is $6—the amount of money that Division A forgoes by
transferring its production to Division B instead of selling it to the market.


However, if Division A is selling all the units it can to external customers for $6 per
unit but still has some excess manufacturing capacity, the value of the opportunity
forgone in transferring the product from Division A to Division B is only $5 per unit
—Division A’s marginal cost of production. Because the external market cannot
absorb any more of Division A’s product at $6 per unit, the value of the opportunity
forgone when Division A transfers units of production to Division B is not $6 per
unit (Division A can’t get that price), but only $5 per unit.23


When transfer prices are set equal to opportunity costs, selling divisions will
produce output up to the point that the marginal cost of the last unit produced
equals the transfer price. Moreover, buying divisions will buy units from other
divisions in the firm if the net revenues from doing so just cover the transfer price.
These transfer prices will lead profit-maximizing divisions to optimize the
diversified firm’s profits.
Difficulties in Setting Optimal Transfer Prices
Setting transfer prices equal to opportunity costs sounds simple enough, but it is
very difficult to do in real diversified firms. Establishing optimal transfer prices
requires information about the value of the opportunities forgone by the “selling”
division. This, in turn, requires information about this division’s marginal costs, its
manufacturing capacity, external demand for its products, and so forth. Much of
this information is difficult to obtain. Moreover, it is rarely stable. As market
conditions change, demand for a division’s products can change, marginal costs
can change, and the value of opportunities forgone can change. Also, to the extent
that a selling division customizes the products or services it transfers to other
divisions in a diversified firm, the value of the opportunities forgone by this selling
division become even more difficult to calculate.


Even if this information could be obtained and updated rapidly, division general
managers in selling divisions have strong incentives to manipulate the information
in ways that increase the perceived value of the opportunities forgone by their
division. These division general managers can thus increase the transfer price for
the products or services they sell to internal customers and thereby appropriate for
their division profits that should have been allocated to buying divisions.
Setting Transfer Prices in Practice
Because it is rarely possible for firms to establish an optimal transfer-pricing
scheme, most diversified firms must adopt some form of transfer pricing that
attempts to approximate optimal prices. Several of these transfer-pricing schemes
are described in Table 10.3      . However, no matter what particular scheme a firm
uses, the transfer prices it generates will, at times, create inefficiencies and
conflicts in a diversified firm. Some of these inefficiencies and conflicts are
described in Table 10.4    .24


Table 10.3 Alternative Transfer-Pricing Schemes


Table 10.4 Weaknesses of Alternative Transfer-Pricing Schemes


The inefficiencies and conflicts created by transfer-pricing schemes that only
approximate optimal transfer prices mean that few diversified firms are ever fully
satisfied with how they set transfer prices. Indeed, one study found that as the
level of resource sharing in a diversified firm increases (thereby increasing the
importance of transfer-pricing mechanisms) the level of job satisfaction for division
general managers decreases.25


It is not unusual for a diversified firm to change its transfer-pricing mechanisms
every few years to find the “right” transfer-pricing mechanism. Economic theory
tells us what the “right” transfer-pricing mechanism is: Transfer prices should equal
opportunity cost. However, this “correct” transfer-pricing mechanism cannot be
implemented in most firms. Firms that continually change their transfer-pricing
mechanisms generally find that all these systems have some weaknesses. In
deciding which system to use, a firm should be less concerned about finding the
right transfer-pricing mechanism and more concerned about choosing a transfer-
pricing policy that creates the fewest management problems—or at least the kinds
of problems that the firm can manage effectively. Indeed, some scholars have
suggested that the search for optimal transfer pricing should be abandoned in
favor of treating transfer pricing as a conflict-resolution process. Viewed in this
way, transfer pricing highlights differences between divisions and thus makes it
possible to begin to resolve those differences in a mutually beneficial way.26


Overall, the three management control processes described here—measuring
divisional performance, allocating corporate capital, and transferring intermediate
products—suggest that the implementation of a corporate diversification strategy
requires a great deal of management skill and experience. They also suggest that
sometimes diversified firms may find themselves operating businesses that no
longer fit with the firm’s overall corporate strategy. This can often lead to divesting
a business, an important topic in Chapter 12      .
Compensation Policies and
Implementing Corporate
Diversification
Objective 10.3 Describe the role of management compensation in
               helping to implement a corporate diversification
               strategy.

A firm’s compensation policies constitute a final set of tools for
implementing diversification. Traditionally, the compensation of
corporate managers in a diversified firm has been only loosely
connected to the firm’s economic performance. One important study
examined the relationship between executive compensation and firm
performance and found that differences in CEO cash compensation
(salary plus cash bonus) are not very responsive to differences in
firm performance.27 In particular, this study showed that a CEO of a
firm whose equity holders lost, collectively, $400 million in a year
earned average cash compensation worth $800,000, while a CEO of
a firm whose equity holders gained, collectively, $400 million in a
year earned average cash compensation worth $1,040,000. Thus,
an $800 million difference in the performance of a firm only had, on
average, a $204,000 impact on the size of a CEO’s salary and cash
bonus. Put differently, for every million dollars of improved firm
performance, CEOs, on average, get paid an additional $255. After
taxes, increasing a firm’s performance by a million dollars is roughly
equal in value to a good dinner at a nice restaurant.

However, this same study was able to show that if a substantial
percentage of a CEO’s compensation came in the form of stock and
stock options in the firm, changes in compensation would be closely
linked with changes in the firm performance. In particular, the $800
million difference in firm performance just described would be
associated with a $1.2 million difference in the value of CEO
compensation if CEO compensation included stock and stock
options in addition to cash compensation. In this setting, an
additional million dollars of firm performance increases a CEO’s
salary by $667.


These, and similar findings reported elsewhere, have led more and
more diversified firms to include stock and stock options as part of
the compensation package for the CEO. As important, many firms
now extend this non-cash compensation to other senior managers in
a diversified firm, including division general managers. For example,
the top 1,300 managers at General Dynamics receive stock and
stock options as part of their compensation package. Moreover, the
cash bonuses of these managers also depend on General
Dynamics’ stock market performance. At Johnson & Johnson, all
division general managers receive a five-component compensation
package. The level of only one of those components, salary, does
not vary with the economic profitability of the business over which a
division general manager presides. The level of the other four
components—a cash bonus, stock grants, stock options, and a
deferred income package—varies with the economic performance of
a particular division. Moreover, the value of some of these variable
components of compensation also depends on Johnson & Johnson’s
long-term economic performance.28


To the extent that compensation in diversified firms gives managers
incentives to make decisions consistent with stockholders’ interests,
they can be an important part of the process of implementing
corporate diversification. However, the sheer size of the
compensation paid to some CEOs raises ethical issues for some.
These ethical issues are discussed in the Ethics and Strategy
feature.
E T H I C S A N D S T R AT E G Y
Do CEOs Get Paid Too Much?

Nothing in business gets as much negative press as CEO
salaries. In 2016, for example, Dara Khosrowshahi, CEO of
Expedia, was paid $94.6 million; Leslie Moonves, CEO of
CBS was paid $56.4 million; Phillipe Dauman, CEO of
Viacom $54.1 million; and co-CEOS of Oracle, Mark Hurd
and Safra Catz, were paid $53.2 million each. Reasonable
people ask, “Is anyone worth this much money?”

Indeed, in a 2016 survey conducted in the United States, over
74% survey respondents believed that CEOs in the United
States were being paid too much. This was the case even
though these respondents thought that CEOSs in the United
States earned, on average, $1 million a year. In fact, CEOs of
publically traded firms in the United States earned an average
of $10.3 million in 2016.

But determining what CEOs “should” be paid is a difficult
question. Some firms adopt policies that state that their CEOs
cannot make more than some multiple of the lowest-paid
employee in a firm. This is how Ben & Jerry’s Ice Cream
compensated its CEO. However, this policy may have cost its
shareholders millions of dollars because it prevented Ben &
Jerry’s from recruiting a CEO who would have facilitated Ben
& Jerry’s acquisition by a firm that could effectively leverage
the Ben & Jerry’s brand.
Many firms delegate the responsibility of determining CEO
salary to the compensation committee on the board of
directors. The compensation committee often identifies a set
of comparable firms (i.e., firms about the same size and in the
same industry) as its firm and then calculates the average
compensation of CEOs in these firms. Of course, because no
firm wants to think that its CEO is in the “bottom half” of its
comparable firms, most firms pay their CEOs something over
this average—a decision-making process that ensures that, in
the long run, CEO pay will continue to rise.

The mix of compensation also makes it difficult to know how
much a CEO should get paid. For example, most of the “big
bucks” in CEO compensation come not from salary but from
bonuses, stock, stock options, and other perquisites. Most of
these non-salary forms of compensation depend on the
performance of a firm and are designed to align the financial
interests of CEOs and a firm’s shareholders. This is the case
at Berkshire Hathaway, where a key operating principle is that
most of the personal wealth of Warren Buffett and his senior
management team is held in Berkshire Hathaway stock. In
fact, one study showed that, on average, CEO compensation
in excess of what would be expected based on a CEO’s
business experience is positively correlated with a firm’s
performance.

Of course, correlation is not causation. The question remains
open: Does a CEO must receive massive incentive
compensation—literally hundreds of millions of dollars over
time—just so he (or she) will do his (or her) job: to maximize
returns to shareholders? And what are the implications of this
compensation for the other employees in a firm—does it
encourage their ambitions to seek employment among the
senior ranks of a firm, or does it discourage and demoralize
them that one person can get paid so much while they get
paid so little?29
Summary
To be valuable, diversification strategies must exploit valuable
economies of scope that cannot be duplicated by outside investors
at low cost. However, to realize the value of these economies of
scope, firms must organize themselves appropriately. A firm’s
organizational structure, its management control processes, and its
compensation policies are all relevant in implementing a corporate
diversification strategy.

The best organizational structure for implementing a diversification
leveraging strategy is the multidivisional, or M-form, structure. The
M-form structure has several critical components, including the
board of directors, institutional investors, the senior executive,
corporate staff, division general managers, and shared activity
managers.

This organizational structure is supported by a variety of
management control processes. Three critical management control
processes for firms implementing diversification strategies are: (1)
evaluating the performance of divisions; (2) allocating capital across
divisions; and (3) transferring intermediate products between
divisions. The existence of economies of scope in firms
implementing corporate diversification strategies significantly
complicates the management of these processes.
Finally, a firm’s compensation policies are also important for firms
implementing a diversification strategy. Historically, management
compensation has been only loosely connected to a firm’s economic
performance, but recently the increased popularity of using stock
and stock options to help compensate managers. Such
compensation schemes help reduce conflicts between managers
and outside investors, but the absolute level of CEO compensation is
still very high, at least in the United States.




       MyLab Management
       Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management to
       complete the problems marked with this icon .
Challenge Questions
   10.1. Agency theory has been criticized for assuming that
   managers, left on their own, will behave in ways that reduce
   the wealth of outside equity holders when, in fact, most
   managers are highly responsible stewards of the assets they
   control. This alternative view of managers has been called
   stewardship theory. Why would you agree with this criticism of
   agency theory?
       10.2. Suppose that the concept of the stewardship theory
   is correct and that most managers, most of the time, behave
   responsibly and make decisions that maximize the present
   value of the assets they control. What implications, if any,
   would this supposition have on organizing to implement
   diversification strategies?
   10.3. The M-form structure enables firms to pursue complex
   corporate diversification strategies by delegating different
   management responsibilities to different individuals and
   groups within a firm. Based on the concept of the M-form
   structure is there a natural limit to the efficient size of a
   diversified firm?
   10.4. Most observers agree that centrally planned economies
   fail because it is impossible for bureaucrats in large
   government hierarchies to coordinate different sectors of an
   economy as efficiently as market mechanisms do. Many
   diversified firms, however, are as large as some economies
and use private sector hierarchies to coordinate diverse
business activities in a firm. Why would you consider these
large, private sector hierarchies somehow different from the
government hierarchies of centrally planned economies?
10.5. Most observers agree that centrally planned economies
fail because it is impossible for bureaucrats in large
government hierarchies to coordinate different sectors of an
economy as efficiently as market mechanisms do. Many
diversified firms, however, are as large as some economies
and use private sector hierarchies to coordinate diverse
business activities in a firm. If you do not consider these large,
private sector hierarchies as different from the government
hierarchies of centrally planned economies, then why do they
continue to exist?
   10.6. Suppose that the optimal transfer price between one
business and all other business activities in a firm is the
market price. What does this condition say about whether this
firm should own this business?
Problem Set
  10.7. Which elements of the M-form structure (the board of
  directors, the office of the CEO, corporate staff, division
  general managers, shared activity managers) should be
  involved in the following business activities? If more than one
  of these groups should be involved, indicate their relative level
  of involvement (e.g., 20 percent office of the CEO, 10 percent
  shared activity manager, 70 percent division general
  manager). Justify your answers.
       a. Determining the compensation of the CEO
       b. Determining the compensation of the corporate vice
           president of human resources
       c. Determining the compensation of a vice president of
           human resources in a particular business division
       d. Deciding to sell a business division
       e. Deciding to buy a relatively small firm whose activities
           are closely related to the activities of one of the firm’s
           current divisions
        f. Deciding to buy a larger firm that is not closely related
           to the activities of any of a firm’s current divisions
       g. Evaluating the performance of the vice president of
           sales, a manager whose sales staff sells the products
           of three divisions in the firm
       h. Evaluating the performance of the vice president of
           sales, a manager whose sales staff sells the products
       of only one division in the firm
     i. Determining how much money to invest in a corporate
        R&D function
     j. Deciding how much money to invest in an R&D
       function that supports the operations of two divisions
       within the firm
    k. Deciding whether to fire an R&D scientist
    l. Deciding whether to fire the vice president of
       accounting in a particular division
   m. Deciding whether to fire the corporation’s vice
       president of accounting
   n. Deciding whether to take a firm public by selling stock
       in the firm to the general public for the first time


10.8. Consider the following facts. Division A in a firm has
generated $847,000 of profits on $24 million worth of sales,
using $32 million worth of dedicated assets. The cost of
capital for this firm is 9 percent, and the firm has invested $7.3
million in this division.
     a. Calculate the Return on Sales (ROS) and Return on
        Total Assets (ROA) of Division A. If the hurdle rates for
       ROS and ROA in this firm are, respectively, 0.06 and
       0.04, has this division performed well?
    b. Calculate the EVA of Division A (assuming that the
       reported profits have already been adjusted). Based on
       this EVA, has this division performed well?
    c. Suppose you were CEO of this firm. How would you
       choose between ROS/ROA and EVA for evaluating this
      division?


10.9. Suppose that Division A sells an intermediate product to
Division B. Choose one of the ways of determining transfer
prices described in this chapter (not setting transfer prices
equal to the selling firm’s opportunity costs) and show how
Division Manager A can use this mechanism to justify a higher
transfer price while Division Manager B can use this
mechanism to justify a lower transfer price. Repeat this
exercise with another approach to setting transfer prices
described in the chapter.
MyLab Management
Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management for
Auto-graded writing questions as well as the following
Assisted-graded writing questions:

         10.10. How are the roles of senior executives
      and shared activity managers different in
      making the M-form structure work?
         10.11. What are the implications for a
      multidivisional firm when the corporate staff
      become too involved in the day-to-day
      operations of divisions?
End Notes
1    Alphabet’s 10K from 2016; databank.worldbank.org/data/download/GDP.PDF;
money.cnn.com/2014/01/13/technology/google-nest; www.nest.com; www.verify.com;
www.wamo.com. All accessed February 28, 2017.
2    The structure and function of the multidimensional firm were first described by
Chandler, A. (1962). Strategy and structure: Chapters in the history of the industrial
enterprise. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. The economic logic underlying the multidimensional
firm was first described by Williamson, O. E. (1975). Markets and hierarchies: Analysis and
antitrust implications. New York: Free Press. Empirical examinations of the impact of the M-
form or firm performance include Armour, H. O., and D. J. Teece. (1980). “Vertical
integration and technological innovation.” Review of Economics and Statistics, 60, pp. 470–
474. There continues to be some debate about the efficiency of the M-form structure. See
Freeland, R. F. (1966). “The myth of the M-form? Governance, consent, and organizational
change.” American Journal of Sociology, 102(2), pp. 483–626; and Shanley, M. (1996).
“Straw men and M-form myths: Comment on Freeland.” American Journal of Sociology,
102(2), pp. 527–536.
3    M. C. Jensen and W. H. Meckling (1976). “Theory of the firm: Managerial behavior,
agency costs, and ownership structure.” Journal of Financial Economics, 3, pp. 305–360; J.
Useem (2003). “The biggest show.” Fortune, December 8, pp. 157+; R. Lambert (1986).
“Executive effort and selection of risky projects.” Rand Journal of Economics, 13(2), pp.
369–378.
4    E. Zajac and J. Westphal (1994). “The costs and benefits of managerial incentives and
monitoring in large U.S. corporations: When is more not better?” Strategic Management
Journal, 15, pp. 121–142; P. Rechner and D. Dalton (1991). “CEO duality and
organizational performance: A longitudinal analysis.” Strategic Management Journal, 12, pp.
155–160; S. Finkelstein and R. D’Aveni (1994). “CEO duality as a double-edged sword:
How boards of directors balance entrenchment avoidance and unity of command.”
Academy of Management Journal, 37, pp. 1079–1108; B. K. Boyd (1995). “CEO duality and
firm performance: A contingency model.” Strategic Management Journal, 16, pp. 301–312;
I. F. Kesner and R. B. Johnson (1990). “An investigation of the relationship between board
composition and stockholder suits.” Strategic Management Journal, 11, pp. 327–336.
5    See Finkelstein, S., and R. D’Aveni. (1994). “CEO duality as a double-edged sword:
How boards of directors balance entrenchment avoidance and unity of command.”
Academy of Management Journal, 37, pp. 1079–1108.
6    Kesner, I. F. (1988). “Director’s characteristics and committee membership: An
investigation of type, occupation, tenure and gender.” Academy of Management Journal, 31,
pp. 66–84; and Zahra, S. A., and J. A. Pearce II. (1989). “Boards of directors and corporate
financial performance: A review and integrative model.” Journal of Management, 15, pp.
291–334.
7    Investor Relations Business. (2000). “Reversal of fortune: Institutional ownership is
declining.” Investor Relations Business, May 1, pp. 8–9; and Federal Reserve Board.
(2006). “Flow of funds report.” www.corpgov.net.
8    See Hansen, G. S., and C. W. L. Hill. (1991). “Are institutional investors myopic? A
time-series study of four technology-driven industries.” Strategic Management Journal, 12,
pp. 1–16.
9    See Bergh, D. (1995). “Size and relatedness of units sold: An agency theory and
resource-based perspective.” Strategic Management Journal, 16, pp. 221–239; and Bethel,
J., and J. Liebeskind. (1993). “The effects of ownership structure on corporate
restructuring.” Strategic Management Journal, 14, pp. 15–31.
10    Burdens that are well described by Westley, F., and H. Mintzberg. (1989). “Visionary
leadership and strategic management.” Strategic Management Journal, 10, pp. 17–32.
11    See Dumaine, B. (1992). “Is big still good?” Fortune, April 20, pp. 50–60.
12    See Golden, B. (1992). “SBU strategy and performance: The moderating effects of
the corporate–SBU relationship.” Strategic Management Journal, 13, pp. 145–158; Berger,
P., and E. Ofek. (1995). “Diversification effect on firm value.” Journal of Financial
Economics, 37, pp. 36–65; Lang, H. P., and R. M. Stulz. (1994). “Tobin’s q, corporate
diversification, and firm performance.” Journal of Political Economy, 102, pp. 1248–1280;
and Rumelt, R. (1991). “How much does industry matter?” Strategic Management Journal,
12, pp. 167–185.
13    See Halal, W. (1994). “From hierarchy to enterprise: Internal markets are the new
foundation of management.” The Academy of Management Executive, 8(4), pp. 69–83.
14    Bartlett, C., and S. Ghoshal. (1993). “Beyond the M-form: Toward a managerial
theory of the firm.” Strategic Management Journal, 14, pp. 23–46.
15    See Simons, R. (1994). “How new top managers use control systems as levers of
strategic renewal.” Strategic Management Journal, 15, pp. 169–189.
16    Bethel, J. E. (1990). “The capital allocation process and managerial mobility: A
theoretical and empirical investigation.” Unpublished doctoral dissertation, UCLA.
17    Some of these are described in Duffy, M. (1989). “ZBB, MBO, PPB, and their
effectiveness within the planning/marketing process.” Strategic Management Journal, 12,
pp. 155–160.
18    See Stern, J., B. Stewart, and D. Chew. (1995). “The EVA financial management
system.” Journal of Applied Corporate Finance, 8, pp. 32–46; and Tully, S. (1993). “The real
key to creating wealth.” Fortune, September 20, pp. 38–50.
19    Applications of EVA are described in Tully, S. (1993). “The real key to creating
wealth.” Fortune, September 20, pp. 38–50; Tully, S. (1995). “So, Mr. Bossidy, we know you
can cut. Now show us how to grow.” Fortune, August 21, pp. 70–80; and Tully, S. (1995).
“Can EVA deliver profits to the post office?” Fortune, July 10, p. 22.
20    A special issue of the Journal of Applied Corporate Finance in 1994 addressed many
of these issues.
21    See Priem, R. (1990). “Top management team group factors, consensus, and firm
performance.” Strategic Management Journal, 11, pp. 469–478; and Wooldridge, B., and S.
Floyd. (1990). “The strategy process, middle management involvement, and organizational
performance.” Strategic Management Journal, 11, pp. 231–241.
22    A point made by Westley, F. (1900). “Middle managers and strategy: Microdynamics
of inclusion.” Strategic Management Journal, 11, pp. 337–351; Lamont, O. (1997). “Cash
flow and investment: Evidence from internal capital markets.” The Journal of Finance, 52(1),
pp. 83–109; Shin, H. H., and R. M. Stulz. (1998). “Are internal capital markets efficient?”
Quarterly Journal of Economics, May, pp. 531–552; and Stein, J. C. (1997). “Internal capital
markets and the competition for corporate resources.” The Journal of Finance, 52(1), pp.
111–133.
23    See Brickley, J., C. Smith, and J. Zimmerman. (1996). Organizational architecture
and managerial economics approach. Homewood, IL: Irwin; and Eccles, R. (1985). The
transfer pricing problem: A theory for practice. Lexington, MA: Lexington Books.
24    See Cyert, R., and J. G. March. (1963). A behavioral theory of the firm. Upper Saddle
River, NJ: Prentice Hall; Swieringa, R. J., and J. H. Waterhouse. (1982). “Organizational
views of transfer pricing.” Accounting, Organizations & Society, 7(2), pp. 149–165; and
Eccles, R. (1985). The transfer pricing problem: A theory for practice. Lexington, MA:
Lexington Books.
25    Gupta, A. K., and V. Govindarajan. (1986). “Resource sharing among SBUs:
Strategic antecedents and administrative implications.” Academy of Management Journal,
29, pp. 695–714.
26    A point made by Swieringa, R. J., and J. H. Waterhouse. (1982). “Organizational
views of transfer pricing.” Accounting, Organizations and Society, 7(2), pp. 149–165.
27    Jensen, M. C., and K. J. Murphy. (1990). “Performance pay and top management
incentives.” Journal of Political Economy, 98, pp. 225–264.
28    See Dial, J., and K. J. Murphy. (1995). “Incentive, downsizing, and value creation at
General Dynamics.” Journal of Financial Economics, 37, pp. 261–314, on General
Dynamics’ compensation scheme; and Aguilar, F. J., and A. Bhambri. (1983). “Johnson &
Johnson (A).” Harvard Business School Case No. 9-384-053, on Johnson & Johnson’s
compensation scheme.
29    www.equilar.com/reports/38-new-york-times-200-highest-paid-CEOs-2006;
www.gsb.stanford.edu/faculty/publications/americans-CEO-pay-2016-public-
perception-survey-CEO-compensation. Both accessed March 2, 2017; A. Mackey
(2006). “Dynamics in executive labor markets: CEO effects, executive-firm matching, and
rent sharing.” Dissertation, The Ohio State University.
Chapter 11 Strategic Alliances
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to:


               11.1 Define a strategic alliance and give three
               specific examples of strategic alliances.
               11.2 Describe how strategic alliances can create
               value for firms.
               11.3 Describe how adverse selection, moral
               hazard, and holdup can threaten the ability of
               alliances to generate value.
               11.4 Describe the conditions under which a
               strategic alliance can be rare and costly to
               duplicate.
               11.5 Describe how contracts, equity investments,
               firm reputations, joint ventures, and trust can all
               reduce the threat of cheating in strategic
               alliances.
MyLab Management
  Improve Your Grade!


If your instructor is using MyLab Management, visit
www.pearson.com/mylab/management for
simulations, tutorials, and end-of-chapter problems.
Alliances Between Chinese
and U.S. Firms
On June 20, 2016, Wal-Mart announced an alliance with
China’s second largest ecommerce firm, JD.com, to provide
improved online shopping experiences for Chinese
consumers. As part of this agreement, Wal-Mart agreed to sell
Yihaodian--an internet retailer that Wal-Mart had finished
purchasing only a year earlier—to JD.com. It also purchased
nearly 5% of JD.com’s outstanding shares and promised to
make a wide variety of products sold by Wal-Mart and Sam’s
Club available to JD.com customers. JD.com, a member of
the NASDAQ100, brought its impressive fulfillment
capabilities—7 fulfillment centers, 209 warehouses, and 5987
pickup and delivery stations throughout China—its same day
delivery service, and its strong presence on the internet in
China to the alliance.
B Christopher/Alamy Stock Photo




This announcement marked the apparent end of Wal-Mart’s
effort to build its own internet presence in China. At the time
of the alliance, the two biggest ecommerce firms in China—
Alibaba and JD.com—had over 80% of the market. Despite
significant investments, Yihaodian, Wal-Mart’s Chinese
ecommerce subsidiary, never gained more than 2% of the
internet retail market in China. Given the challenges of “going
it alone,” it did not surprise most observers that Wal-Mart
choose to ally with a large Chinese ecommerce firm.

At about the same time that Wal-Mart was choosing to
outsource its ecommerce activities in China to JD.com,
several high technology U.S. firms—including IBM, Intel, Dell,
Cisco, and Hewlett Packard—announced a series of alliances
with a variety of Chinese firms. While designed to accomplish
different business objectives—IBM’s alliance with Inspur
International was set to design new server systems, while
Intel invested $1.5 billion in two firms with ties to the Chinese
government that manufactured chips for Chinese mobile
phones—all these alliances were formed in the context of the
Chinese government’s push to make the Chinese technology
sector more “Chinese.” This sector grew 11.4% to $465.6
billion in 2015. While these alliances enabled these U.S. firms
to continue operating profitably in China, many observers
wondered if a China first policy would ultimately make it
increasingly difficult for non-Chinese firms to be major players
in Chinese high technology markets.

Also, at about the same time as these high technology firms
were forming alliances to protect their positions in the Chinese
technology markets, several U.S. law firms were completing
alliances with Chinese law firms. It is illegal for foreigners to
practice law in China. Thus, law firms with global clients doing
business in China must find partners who can provide
important legal services to those clients in China. The world’s
largest law firm, Baker & McKenzie formed an alliance with
FenXu Partners and began operations in the Shanghai Free
Trade Zone. McGuireWoods, another large law firm, allied
with FuJae Partners, a small Chinese law firm that specialized
in acquisitions, trade, and other aspects of business law.
While important to providing a full range of services to its
global clients, most observers believe that these alliances with
Chinese law firms are yet to be profitable for non-Chinese law
firms.
It is clear that entering the Chinese market often involves the
formation of strategic alliances. But these alliances are not
homogenous in character. Some are formed—including Wal-
Mart’s alliance with JD.com—because of competitive
advantages enjoyed by the Chinese partner. Some are
formed—including many of the high technology alliances
mentioned earlier—because of pressure by the Chinese
government to make a sector more Chinese. And some are
formed—including the legal alliances—because it is illegal to
do business in China without some sort of alliance.1

The use of strategic alliances to manage
economic exchanges has grown
substantially over the past several years. In
the early 1990s, strategic alliances were
relatively uncommon, except in a few
industries. However, by the late 1990s they
had become much more common in a wide
variety of industries. Indeed, more than
20,000 alliances were created worldwide in
2000 and 2001. In the computer
technology-based industries, more than
2200 alliances were created between 2001
and 2005. This, the complex web of
relationships that characterizes the links
between Apple and Samsung, is becoming
increasingly more common.2
What is a Strategic Alliance?
Objective 11.1 Define a strategic alliance and give three specific
                examples of strategic alliances.

A strategic alliance exists whenever two or more independent
organizations cooperate in the development, manufacture, or sale of
products or services. As suggested in the opening case, alliances
can be created for a wide variety of reasons. However,
structurally, as shown in Figure 11.1 , strategic alliances can be
grouped into three broad categories: nonequity alliances, equity
alliances, and joint ventures.
Figure 11.1 Types of Strategic Alliances

In a nonequity alliance    , cooperating firms agree to work together
to develop, manufacture, or sell products or services, but they do not
take equity positions in each other or form an independent
organizational unit to manage their cooperative efforts. Rather, these
cooperative relations are managed using various contracts.
Licensing agreements (where one firm allows others to use its
brand name to sell products), supply agreements (where one
firm agrees to supply others), and distribution agreements
(where one firm agrees to distribute the products of others) are
examples of nonequity strategic alliances. IBM’s alliance with the
Chinese firm Inspur International is an example of a non-equity
alliance.


In an equity alliance    , cooperating firms supplement contracts
with equity holdings in alliance partners. For example, when GM
began importing small cars manufactured by Isuzu, not only did
these partners have supply contracts in place, but GM purchased
34.2 percent of Isuzu’s stock. Ford had a similar relationship with
Mazda, and Chrysler had a similar relationship with Mitsubishi.3
Equity alliances are also very common in the biotechnology industry.
Large pharmaceutical firms such as Pfizer and Merck often own
equity positions in several startup biotechnology companies. Wal-
Mart’s alliance with JD.com is an example of an equity alliance.


In a joint venture , cooperating firms create a legally independent
firm in which they invest and from which they share any profits that
are created. Some of these joint ventures can be very large. For
example, Dow and Corning’s joint venture, Dow-Corning, is a
Fortune 500 company on its own. CFM—a joint venture between
General Electric and SNECMA (a French aerospace firm)—is one of
the world’s leading manufacturers of jet engines for commercial
aircraft. If you have ever flown on a Boeing 737, then you have
placed your life in the hands of this joint venture because it
manufactures the engines for virtually all of these aircraft.
How do Strategic Alliances Create
Value?
Objective 11.2 Describe how strategic alliances can create value for
               firms.


Like all the strategies discussed in this book, strategic alliances
create value by exploiting opportunities and neutralizing threats
facing a firm. Some of the most important opportunities that can be
exploited by strategic alliances are listed in Table 11.1 . Threats to
strategic alliances are discussed later in this chapter.


Table 11.1 Ways Strategic Alliances Can Create Economic Value
Strategic Alliance Opportunities
Opportunities associated with strategic alliances fall into three large
categories. First, these alliances can be used by a firm to improve
the performance of its current operations. Second, alliances can be
used to create a competitive environment favorable to superior firm
performance. Finally, they can be used to facilitate a firm’s entry into
or exit from new markets or industries.
Improving Current Operations
Firms can use alliances to improve current operations in at least
three ways: to realize economies of scale, to learn from competitors,
and to manage risks and share costs.
Realizing Economies of Scale
Firms can use strategic alliances to improve their current operations
by using alliances to realize economies of scale. The concept of
economies of scale was first introduced in Chapter 2 . Economies
of scale     exist when the per-unit cost of production falls as the
volume of production increases. Thus, for example, although the per-
unit cost of producing one BIC pen is very high, the per-unit cost of
producing 50 million BIC pens is very low.

To realize economies of scale, firms must have a large volume of
production, or at least a volume of production large enough so that
the cost advantages associated with scale can be realized.
Sometimes—as was described in Chapters 2 and 4 —a firm
can realize these economies of scale by itself; other times, it cannot.
When a firm cannot realize the cost savings from economies of scale
all by itself, it may join in a strategic alliance with other firms. Jointly,
these firms may have sufficient volume to be able to gain the cost
advantages of economies of scale.


But why wouldn’t a firm be able to realize these economies all by
itself? A firm may have to turn to alliance partners to help realize
economies of scale for several reasons. For example, if the volume
of production required to realize these economies is very large, a
single firm might have to dominate an entire industry to obtain these
advantages. It is often very difficult for a single firm to obtain such a
dominant position in an industry. And even if it does so, it may be
subject to anti-monopoly regulation by the government. Also,
although a particular part or technology may be very important to
several firms, no one firm may generate sufficient demand for this
part or technology to realize economies of scale in its development
and production. In this setting as well, independent firms may join to
form an alliance to realize economies of scale in the development
and production of the part or technology.
Learning from Competitors
Firms can also use alliances to improve their current operations by
learning from their competitors. As suggested in Chapter 3 ,
different firms in an industry may have different resources and
capabilities. These resources can give some firms competitive
advantages over others. Firms that are at a competitive
disadvantage may want to form alliances with the firms that have an
advantage to learn about their resources and capabilities.

General Motors formed this kind of alliance with Toyota. In the early
1990s, GM and Toyota jointly invested in a previously closed GM
plant in Fremont, California. This joint venture—called NUMMI—was
to build compact cars to be distributed through GM’s distribution
network. But why did GM decide to build these cars in an alliance
with Toyota? Obviously, it could have built them in any of its own
plants. However, GM was very interested in learning about how
Toyota could manufacture high-quality small cars at a profit. Indeed,
in the NUMMI plant, Toyota agreed to take total responsibility for the
manufacturing process, using former GM employees to install and
operate the “lean manufacturing” system that had enabled Toyota to
become the quality leader in the small-car segment of the
automobile industry. However, Toyota also agreed to let GM
managers work in the plant and directly observe how Toyota
managed this production process. Since its inception, GM has
rotated thousands of its managers from other GM plants through the
NUMMI plant so that they can be exposed to Toyota’s lean
manufacturing methods.
It is clear why GM would want this alliance with Toyota. But why
would Toyota want this alliance with GM? Certainly, Toyota was not
looking to learn about lean manufacturing, per se. However, because
Toyota was contemplating entering the United States by building its
own manufacturing facilities, it did need to learn how to implement
lean manufacturing in the United States with U.S. employees. Thus,
Toyota also had something to learn from this alliance.

When both parties to an alliance are seeking to learn something from
that alliance, an interesting dynamic called a learning race    can
evolve. This dynamic is described in more detail in the Strategy in
Depth feature. Of course, when an alliance is based on the need
for one or more parties to learn from the other, when the parties
involved have learned all they can from the alliance, then the alliance
is no longer required. Thus, for example, in 2010, the NUMMI
alliance between GM and Toyota was closed. Interestingly, the
Fremont California plant used by NUMMI was then sold to Tesla.
S T R AT E G Y I N D E P T H




Winning Learning Races

A learning race exists in a strategic alliance when both parties
to that alliance seek to learn from each other but the rate at
which these two firms learn varies. In this setting, the first firm
to learn what it wants to learn from an alliance has the option
to begin to underinvest in, and perhaps even withdraw from,
an alliance. In this way, the firm that learns faster can prevent
the slower-learning firm from learning all it wanted from an
alliance. If, outside of this alliance, these firms are
competitors, winning a learning race can create a sustained
competitive advantage for the faster-learning firm over the
slower-learning firm.

Firms in an alliance may vary in the rate they learn from each
other for a variety of reasons. First, they may be looking to
learn different things, some of which are easier to learn than
others. For example, in the GM/Toyota example, GM wanted
to learn about how to use “lean manufacturing” to build high-
quality small cars profitably. Toyota wanted to learn how to
apply the “lean manufacturing” skills it already possessed in
the United States. Which of these is easier to learn—“lean
manufacturing” or how to apply “lean manufacturing” in the
United States?

An argument can be made that GM’s learning task was much
more complicated than Toyota’s. At the very least, for GM to
apply knowledge about “lean manufacturing” gleaned from
Toyota, it would have to transfer that knowledge to several of
its currently operating plants. Using this knowledge would
require these plants to change their current operations—a
difficult and time-consuming process. Toyota, however, only
had to transfer its knowledge of how to operate a “lean
manufacturing” operation in the United States to its other U.S.
plants—plants that at the time this alliance was first created
had yet to be built. Because GM’s learning task was more
complicated than Toyota’s, it is very likely that Toyota’s rate of
learning was greater than GM’s.

Second, firms may differ in terms of their ability to learn. This
ability has been called a firm’s absorptive capacity       . Firms
with high levels of absorptive capacity will learn at faster rates
than firms with low levels of absorptive capacity, even if these
two firms are trying to learn exactly the same things in an
alliance. Absorptive capacity has been shown to be an
important organizational capability in a wide variety of
settings.

Third, firms can engage in activities to try to slow the rate of
learning of their alliance partners. For example, although a
firm might make its technology available to an alliance partner
—thereby fulfilling the alliance agreement—it may not provide
all the know-how necessary to exploit this technology. This
can slow a partner’s learning. Also, a firm might withhold
critical employees from an alliance, thereby slowing the
learning of an alliance partner. All these actions, to the extent
that they slow the rate of a partner’s learning without also
slowing the rate at which the firm engaging in these activities
learns, can help this firm win a learning race.

Although learning race dynamics have been described in a
wide variety of settings, they are particularly common in
relations between entrepreneurial and large firms. In these
alliances, entrepreneurial firms are often looking to learn
about all the managerial functions required to bring a product
to market, including manufacturing, sales, distribution, and so
forth. This is a difficult learning task. Large firms in these
alliances often are only looking to learn about the
entrepreneurial firm’s technology. This is a less difficult
learning task. Because the learning task facing
entrepreneurial firms is more challenging than that facing their
large-firm partners, larger firms in these alliances typically win
the learning race. Once these large firms learn what they
want from their alliance partners, they often underinvest or
even withdraw from these alliances. This is why, in one study,
almost 80 percent of the managers in entrepreneurial firms
felt unfairly exploited by their large-firm alliance partners.4
Cost and Risk Sharing
Finally, firms can use alliances to improve their current operations
through sharing costs and risks. For example, HBO produces most
of its original programs in alliances with independent producers.
Most of these alliances are created to share costs and risks.
Producing new television shows can be costly. Development and
production costs can run into the hundreds of millions of dollars,
especially for long and complicated series like HBO’s Game of
Thrones. And, despite audience testing and careful market analyses,
the production of these new shows is also very risky. Even
supposedly bankable stars and directors can’t guarantee a film’s
success. In 2016, Brad Pitt starred in a movie called Allied. Right—
you never heard of it. It lost between $75 and $90 million. Mark
Whalberg starred in Deepwater Horizon—it lost $60 million. And
Steven Spielberg directed The BFG. It lost $90 to $100 million.5


In this context, it is not surprising that HBO decides to not “go it
alone” in its production efforts. If HBO was to be the sole producer of
its original programming, not only would it have to absorb all the
production costs, but it would also bear all the risk if a production
turned out not to be successful. Of course, by getting other firms
involved in its production efforts, HBO also must share whatever
profits a particular production generates. Apparently, HBO has
concluded that sharing this upside potential is more than
compensated for by sharing the costs and risks of these productions.
Creating a Favorable Competitive
Environment
Firms can also use strategic alliances to create a competitive
environment that is more conducive to superior performance. This
can be done in at least two ways: by facilitating the development of
technology standards and by facilitating tacit collusion.
Facilitating Technical Standards
Technical standards are important in many industries. Until firms
agree on these standards, customers may be unwilling to make
purchases that commit them to a particular technology when that
technology may not be in production in the future.


Such technological standards are particularly important in what were
called network industries      in Chapter 2    . Such industries are
characterized by increasing returns to scale       . Consider, for
example, fax machines. How valuable is one fax machine, all by
itself? Obviously, not very valuable. Two fax machines that can talk
to each other are a little more valuable, three that can talk to each
other are still more valuable, and so forth. The value of each
individual fax machine depends on the total number of fax machines
in operation that can talk to each other. This is what is meant by
increasing returns to scale—the value (or returns) on each product
increases as the number of these products (or scale) increases.


If there are 100 million fax machines in operation but none of these
machines can talk to each other, none of these machines has any
value whatsoever—except as a large paperweight. For their full
value to be realized, they must be able to talk to each other. And to
talk to each other, they must all adopt the same—or at least
compatible—communication standards. Therefore, setting
technology standards is so important in network industries.
Standards can be set in two ways. First, different firms can introduce
different standards, and consumers can decide which they prefer.
This is how the standard for high-definition DVDs was set. Initially,
two formats competed: HD DVD (supported by Toshiba) and Blu-Ray
DVD (supported by the Blu-Ray Disc Association, a group of 50 or
so electronics firms and content providers). Both formats had
attractive features, but they could not be played on each other’s
players. Competition between the two formats continued for some
time, until firms like Panasonic (in 2004), Samsung (in 2005), Disney
(in 2004), and Paramount (in 2005) committed to the Blu-Ray Disc
format. By 2008, even Toshiba had to acknowledge the dominance
of Blu-Ray Discs. Toshiba released its own Blu-Ray Disc player in
2009.6


Of course, the biggest problem with letting customers and
competition set technology standards is that customers may end up
purchasing technologies that are incompatible with the standard that
is ultimately set in the industry. What about all those consumers who
purchased HD products? For this reason, customers may be
unwilling to invest in a new technology until the standards of that
technology are established.


This is where strategic alliances come in. Sometimes, firms form
strategic alliances with the sole purpose of evaluating and then
choosing a technology standard. With such a standard in place,
technologies can be turned into products that customers are likely to
be more willing to purchase because they know that they will be
compatible with industry standards for at least some period. Thus, in
this setting, strategic alliances can be used to create a more
favorable competitive environment.
Facilitating Tacit Collusion
Another incentive for cooperating in strategic alliances is that such
activities may facilitate the development of tacit collusion. As
explained in Chapter 7      , collusion    exists when two or more
firms in an industry coordinate their strategic choices to reduce
competition in an industry. This reduction in competition usually
makes it easier for colluding firms to earn high levels of performance.
A common example of collusion is when firms cooperate to reduce
the quantity of products being produced in an industry to drive prices
up. Explicit collusion     exists when firms directly communicate
with each other to coordinate their levels of production, their prices,
and so forth. Explicit collusion is illegal in most countries.


Because managers that engage in explicit collusion can end up in
jail, most collusion must be tacit in character. Tacit collusion
exists when firms coordinate their production and pricing decisions
not by directly communicating with each other, but by exchanging
signals with other firms about their intent to cooperate. Examples of
such signals might include public announcements about price
increases, public announcements about reductions in a firm’s
productive output, public announcements about decisions not to
pursue a new technology, and so forth.


Sometimes, signals of intent to collude are very ambiguous. For
example, when firms in an industry do not reduce their prices in
response to a decrease in demand, they may be sending a signal
that they want to collude, or they may be attempting to exploit their
product differentiation to maintain high margins. When firms do not
reduce their prices in response to reduced supply costs, they may be
sending a signal that they want to collude, or they may be
individually maximizing their economic performance. In both these
cases, a firm’s intent to collude or not, as implied by its activities, is
ambiguous at best.


In this context, strategic alliances can facilitate tacit collusion.
Separate firms, even if they are in the same industry, can form
strategic alliances. Although communication between these firms
cannot legally include sharing information about prices and costs for
products or services that are produced outside the alliance, such
interaction does help create the social setting within which tacit
collusion may develop.7 As suggested in the Research Made
Relevant      feature, most early research on strategic alliances
focused on their implications for tacit collusion. More recently,
research suggests that alliances do not usually facilitate tacit
collusion.
R E S E A R C H M A D E R E L E VA N T
Do Strategic Alliances Facilitate Tacit Collusion?


Several authors have concluded that joint ventures, as a form
of alliance, do increase the probability of tacit collusion in an
industry. As reviewed in books by Scherer and Barney, one
study found that joint ventures created two industrial groups,
besides U.S. Steel, in the U.S. iron and steel industry in the
early 1900s. In this sense, joint ventures in the steel industry
were a substitute for U.S. Steel’s vertical integration and had
the effect of creating an oligopoly in what (without joint
ventures) would have been a more competitive market. Other
studies found that more than 50 percent of joint venture
parents belong to the same industry. After examining 885 joint
venture bids for oil and gas leases, yet another study found
only 16 instances where joint venture parents competed with
one another on another tract in the same sale. These results
suggest that joint ventures might encourage subsequent tacit
collusion among firms in the same industry.

In a particularly influential study, Pfeffer and Nowak found that
joint ventures were most likely in industries of moderate
concentration. These authors argued that in highly
concentrated industries—where there were only a small
number of competing firms—joint ventures were not
necessary to create conditions conducive to collusion. In
highly fragmented industries, the high levels of industry
concentration conducive to tacit collusion could not be
created by joint ventures. Only when joint venture activity
could effectively create concentrated industries—that is, only
when industries were moderately concentrated—were joint
ventures likely.

Scherer and Barney also reviewed more recent work that
disputes these findings. Joint ventures between firms in the
same industry may be valuable for a variety of reasons that
have little or nothing to do with collusion. Moreover, by using
a lower level of aggregation, several authors have disputed
the finding that joint ventures are most likely in moderately
concentrated industries. The original study defined industries
using very broad industry categories—“the electronics
industry,” “the automobile industry,” and so forth. By defining
industries less broadly—“consumer electronics” and
“automobile part manufacturers”—subsequent work found
that 73 percent of the joint ventures had parent firms coming
from different industries. Although joint ventures between
firms in the same industry (defined at this lower level of
aggregation) may have collusive implications, subsequent
work has shown that these kinds of joint ventures are
relatively rare.8
Facilitating Entry and Exit
A final way that strategic alliances can be used to create value is by
facilitating a firm’s entry into a new market or industry or its exit from
a market or industry. Strategic alliances are particularly valuable in
this context when the value of market entry or exit is uncertain.
Facilitating Entry
Entry into an industry can require skills, abilities, and products that a
potential entrant does not possess. Strategic alliances can help a
firm enter a new industry by avoiding the high costs of creating these
skills, abilities, and products.


For example, DuPont wanted to enter the electronics industry.
However, building the skills and abilities needed to develop
competitive products in this industry can be very difficult and costly.
Rather than absorb these costs, DuPont developed a strategic
alliance (DuPont/Philips Optical) with an established electronics firm,
Philips, to distribute some of Philips’s products in the United States.
In this way, DuPont could enter a new industry (electronics) without
having to absorb all the costs of creating electronics resources and
abilities from the ground up.


Of course, for this joint venture to succeed, Philips must have had an
incentive to cooperate with DuPont. Whereas DuPont was looking to
reduce its cost of entry into a new industry, Philips was looking to
reduce its cost of continued entry into a new market—the United
States. Philips used its alliance with DuPont to sell in the United
States the compact discs it already was selling in Europe.9 The role
of alliances in facilitating entry into new geographic markets will be
discussed in more detail later in this chapter.


Alliances to facilitate entry into new industries can be valuable even
when the skills needed in these industries are not as complex and
difficult to learn as skills in the electronics industry. For example,
rather than develop their own frozen novelty foods, Welch Foods,
Inc., and Leaf, Inc. (maker of Heath candy bars) asked Eskimo Pie to
formulate products for this industry. Eskimo Pie developed Welch’s
frozen grape juice bar and the Heath toffee ice cream bar. These
firms then split the profits derived from these products.10 If the cost
of using an alliance to enter a new industry is less than the cost of
learning new skills and capabilities, an alliance can be a valuable
strategic opportunity.
Facilitating Exit
Some firms use strategic alliances as a mechanism to withdraw from
industries or industry segments in a low-cost way. Firms are
motivated to withdraw from an industry or industry segment when
their level of performance in that business is less than expected and
when there are few prospects of it improving. When a firm desires to
exit an industry or industry segment, often it will need to dispose of
the assets it has developed to compete in that industry or industry
segment. These assets often include tangible resources and
capabilities, such as factories, distribution centers, and product
technologies, and intangible resources and capabilities, such as
brand name, relationships with suppliers and customers, a loyal and
committed workforce, and so forth.


Firms will often have difficulty in obtaining the full economic value of
these tangible and intangible assets as they exit an industry or
industry segment. This reflects an important information asymmetry
that exists between the firms that currently own these assets and
firms that may want to purchase these assets. By forming an alliance
with a firm that may want to purchase its assets, a firm is giving its
partner an opportunity to directly observe how valuable those assets
are. If those assets are actually valuable, then this “sneak preview”
can lead the assets to be more appropriately priced and thereby
facilitate the exit of the firm that is looking to sell its assets. These
issues will be discussed in more detail in Chapter 10        ’s discussion
of mergers and acquisitions.
One firm that has used strategic alliances to facilitate its exit from an
industry or industry segment is Corning. In the late 1980s, Corning
entered the medical diagnostics industry. After several years,
however, Corning concluded that its resources and capabilities could
be more productively used in other businesses. For this reason, it
began to extract itself from the medical diagnostics business.
However, to ensure that it received the full value of the assets it had
created in the medical diagnostics business upon exiting, it formed a
strategic alliance with the Swiss specialty chemical company Ciba-
Geigy. Ciba-Geigy paid $75 million to purchase half of Corning’s
medical diagnostics business. A couple of years later, Corning
finished exiting from the medical diagnostics business by selling its
remaining assets in this industry to Ciba-Geigy. However, whereas
Ciba-Geigy had paid $75 million for the first half of Corning’s assets,
it paid $150 million for the second half. Corning’s alliance with Ciba-
Geigy had made it possible for Ciba-Geigy to fully value Corning’s
medical diagnostics capabilities. Any information asymmetry that
might have existed was reduced, and Corning could get more of the
full value of its assets upon exiting this industry.11
Managing Uncertainty
Finally, firms may use strategic alliances to manage uncertainty         .
As explained in Chapter 6      , under conditions of high uncertainty,
firms may not be able to tell at a particular point in time which of
several different strategies they should pursue. Firms in this setting
have an incentive to retain the flexibility to move quickly into a
particular market or industry once the full value of that strategy is
revealed. In this sense, strategic alliances enable a firm to maintain
a point of entry into a market or industry, without incurring the costs
associated with full-scale entry.


Based on this logic, strategic alliances have been analyzed as real
options    .12 In this sense, a joint venture is an option that a firm
buys, under conditions of uncertainty, to retain the ability to move
quickly into a market or industry if valuable opportunities present
themselves. One way in which firms can move quickly into a market
is simply to buy out their partner(s) in the joint venture. Moreover, by
investing in a joint venture a firm may gain access to the information
it needs to evaluate full-scale entry into a market. In this approach to
analyzing strategic alliances, firms that invest in alliances as options
will acquire their alliance partners only after the market signals an
unexpected increase in value of the venture; that is, only after
uncertainty is reduced and the true, positive value of entering a
market is known. Empirical findings are consistent with these
expectations.13
Given these observations, it is not surprising to see firms in new and
uncertain environments develop numerous strategic alliances. This
is one of the reasons that strategic alliances are so common in the
biotechnology industry. Although there is relatively little uncertainty
that at least some drugs created through biotechnology will
ultimately prove to be very valuable, which specific drugs will turn out
to be the most valuable is very uncertain. Rather than investing in a
small number of biotechnology drugs on their own, pharmaceutical
companies have invested in numerous strategic alliances with small
biotechnology firms. Each of these smaller firms represents a
particular “bet” about the value of biotechnology in a particular class
of drugs. If one of these “bets” turns out to be valuable, then the
large pharmaceutical firm that has invested in that firm has the right,
but not the obligation, to purchase the rest of this company. In this
sense, from the point of view of the pharmaceutical firms, alliances
between large pharmaceutical firms and small biotechnology firms
can be thought of as real options.
Alliance Threats: Incentives to
Cheat on Strategic Alliances
Objective 11.3 Describe how adverse selection, moral hazard, and
               holdup can threaten the ability of alliances to
               generate value.

Just as there are incentives to cooperate in strategic alliances, there
are also incentives to cheat on these cooperative agreements.
Indeed, research shows that as many as one-third of all strategic
alliances do not meet the expectations of at least one alliance
partner.14 Although some of these alliance “failures” may be due to
firms forming alliances that do not have the potential for creating
value, some are also due to parties to an alliance cheating—that is,
not cooperating in a way that maximizes the value of the alliance.
Cheating can occur in at least the three different ways presented in
Table 11.2   : adverse selection, moral hazard, and holdup.15


Table 11.2 Ways to Cheat in Strategic Alliances
Adverse Selection
Potential cooperative partners can misrepresent the skills, abilities,
and other resources that they will bring to an alliance. This form of
cheating, called adverse selection     , exists when an alliance
partner promises to bring to an alliance certain resources that it
either does not control or cannot acquire. For example, a local firm
engages in adverse selection when it promises to make available to
alliance partners a local distribution network that does not currently
exist. Firms that engage in adverse selection are not competent
alliance partners.


Adverse selection in a strategic alliance is likely only when it is
difficult or costly to observe the resources or capabilities that a
partner brings to an alliance. If potential partners can easily see that
a firm is misrepresenting the resources and capabilities it possesses,
they will not create a strategic alliance with that firm. Armed with
such understanding, they will seek a different alliance partner,
develop the needed skills and resources internally, or perhaps forgo
this particular business opportunity.


However, evaluating the veracity of the claims of potential alliance
partners is often not easy. The ability to evaluate these claims
depends on information that a firm may not possess. To fully
evaluate claims about a potential partner’s political contacts, for
example, a firm needs its own political contacts; to fully evaluate
claims about potential partners’ market knowledge, a firm needs
significant market knowledge. A firm that can completely, and at low
cost, evaluate the resources and capabilities of potential alliance
partners probably does not really need these partners in a strategic
alliance. The fact that a firm is seeking an alliance partner is in some
sense an indication that the firm has limited abilities to evaluate
potential partners.


In general, the less tangible the resources and capabilities that are to
be brought to a strategic alliance, the costlier it will be to estimate
their value before an alliance is created, and the more likely it is that
adverse selection will occur. Firms considering alliances with
partners that bring intangible resources such as “knowledge of local
conditions” or “contacts with key political figures” will need to guard
against this form of cheating.
Moral Hazard
Partners in an alliance may possess high-quality resources and
capabilities of significant value in an alliance but fail to make those
resources and capabilities available to alliance partners. This form of
cheating is called moral hazard . For example, a partner in an
engineering strategic alliance may agree to send only its most
talented and best-trained engineers to work in the alliance but then
actually send less-talented, poorly trained engineers. These less-
qualified engineers may not be able to contribute substantially to
making the alliance successful, but they may be able to learn a great
deal from the highly qualified engineers provided by other alliance
partners. In this way, the less-qualified engineers effectively transfer
wealth from other alliance partners to their own firm.16


The existence of moral hazard in a strategic alliance does not
necessarily mean that any of the parties to that alliance are
malicious or dishonest. Rather, what often happens is that market
conditions change after an alliance is formed, requiring one or more
partners to an alliance to change their strategies.


For example, in the early days of the personal computer industry
Compaq Computer Corporation relied on a network of independent
distributors to sell its computers. However, as competition in the
personal computer industry increased, Internet, mail order, and so-
called computer superstores became much more valuable
distribution networks, and alliances between Compaq and its
traditional distributors became strained. Over time, Compaq’s
traditional distributors were unable to obtain the inventory they
wanted in a timely manner. Indeed, to satisfy the needs of large
accounts, some traditional distributors actually purchased Compaq
computers from local computer superstores and then shipped them
to their customers. Compaq’s shift from independent dealers to
alternative distributors looked like moral hazard—at least from the
point of view of the independent dealers. However, from Compaq’s
perspective, this change simply reflected economic realities in the
personal computer industry.17
Holdup
Even if alliance partners do not engage in either adverse selection or
moral hazard, another form of cheating may evolve. Once a strategic
alliance has been created, partner firms may make investments that
have value only in the context of that alliance and in no other
economic exchanges. These are the transaction-specific
investments mentioned in Chapter 8 . For example, managers
from one alliance partner may have to develop close, trusting
relationships with managers from other alliance partners. These
close relationships are very valuable in the context of the alliance,
but they have limited economic value in other economic exchanges.
Also, one partner may have to customize its manufacturing
equipment, distribution network, and key organizational policies to
cooperate with other partners. These modifications have significant
value in the context of the alliance, but they do not help the firm, and
may even hurt it, in economic exchanges outside the alliance. As
was the case in Chapter 8 , whenever an investment’s value in its
first-best use (in this case, within the alliance) is much greater than
its value in its second-best use (in this case, outside the alliance),
that investment is said to be transaction specific      .18


When one firm makes more transaction-specific investments in a
strategic alliance than partner firms make, that firm may be subject
to the form of cheating called holdup . Holdup occurs when a firm
that has not made significant transaction-specific investments
demands returns from an alliance that are higher than the partners
agreed to when they created the alliance.

For example, suppose two alliance partners agree to a 50/50 split of
the costs and profits associated with an alliance. To make the
alliance work, Firm A must customize its production process. Firm B,
however, does not have to modify itself to cooperate with Firm A.
The value to Firm A of this customized production process, if it is
used in the strategic alliance, is $5000. However, outside the
alliance, this customized process is only worth $200 (as scrap).


Obviously, Firm A has made a transaction-specific investment in this
alliance and Firm B has not. Consequently, Firm A may be subject to
holdup by Firm B. In particular, Firm B may threaten to leave the
alliance unless Firm A agrees to give Firm B part of the $5000 value
that Firm A obtains by using the modified production process in the
alliance. Rather than lose all the value that could be generated by its
investment, Firm A may be willing to give up some of its $5000 to
avoid gaining only $200. Indeed, if Firm B extracts up to the value of
Firm A’s production process in its next-best use (here, only $200),
Firm A will still be better off continuing in this relationship rather than
dissolving it. Thus, even though Firm A and Firm B initially agreed on
a 50/50 split from this strategic alliance, the agreement may be
modified if one party to the alliance makes significant transaction-
specific investments. Research on international joint ventures
suggests that the existence of transaction-specific investments in
these relationships often leads to holdup problems.19
Although holdup is a form of cheating in strategic alliances, the
threat of holdup can also be a motivation for creating an alliance.
Bauxite-smelting companies often join in joint ventures with mining
companies to exploit economies of scale in mining. However, these
firms have another option: They could choose to operate large and
efficient mines by themselves and then sell the excess bauxite (over
and above their needs for their own smelters) on the open market.
Unfortunately, bauxite is not a homogeneous commodity. Moreover,
different kinds of bauxite require different smelting technologies. For
one firm to sell its excess bauxite on the market, other smelting firms
would have to make enormous investments, the sole purpose of
which would be to refine that particular firm’s bauxite. These
investments would be transaction specific and subject these other
smelters to holdup problems.


In this context, a strategic alliance can be thought of as a way of
reducing the threat of holdup by creating an explicit management
framework for resolving holdup problems. In other words, although
holdup problems might still exist in these strategic alliances, the
alliance framework may still be a better way in which to manage
these problems than attempting to manage them in arm’s-length
market relationships. Some of the ethical dimensions of adverse
selection, moral hazard, and holdup are discussed in the Ethics and
Strategy    feature.
E T H I C S A N D S T R AT E G Y
When It Comes to Alliances, Do “Cheaters Never
Prosper”?


Firms in strategic alliances can cheat on their alliance
partners by engaging in adverse selection, moral hazard, or
holdup. These three activities all have at least one thing in
common—they all involve one alliance partner lying to
another. And these lies can often pay off big in the form of the
lying firm appropriating more than its “fair share” of the value
created in an alliance. Are alliances one place in the economy
where the adage “cheaters never prosper” does not hold?

There is little doubt that, in the short run, firms that cheat on
their alliance partners can gain some advantages. But
research suggests that cheating does not pay in the long run
because firms that cheat on their alliance partners will find it
difficult to form alliances with new partners and thus have
many valuable exchange opportunities foreclosed to them.

One study that examined the long-term return to “cheaters” in
strategic alliances analyzed alliances using a simple game
called the “Prisoner’s Dilemma.” In a “Prisoner’s Dilemma”
game, firms have two options: to continue cooperating in a
strategic alliance or to “cheat” on that alliance through
adverse selection, moral hazard, or holdup. The payoffs to
firms in this game depend on the decisions made by both
firms. Recall from Chapter 7 , if both firms decide to
cooperate, they each get a good size payoff from the alliance
(say $3000); if they both decide to cheat on the alliance, they
each get a very small payoff (say $1000); and if one decides
to cheat while the other decides to cooperate, then the
cheating firm gets a very big payoff ($5000) while the
cooperating firm gets a very small payoff ($0).

If Firm 1 and Firm 2 in this game are going to engage in only
one strategic alliance, then they have a very strong incentive
to “cheat.” The worst that could happen if they cheat is that
they earn a $1000 payoff, but there is a possibility of a $5000
payoff. However, research has shown that if a firm is
contemplating engaging in multiple strategic alliances over
time, then the optimal strategy is to cooperate in all its
alliances. This is true even if all these alliances are not with
the same partner firm.

The specific “winning” strategy in repeated “Prisoner
Dilemma” games is called a “tit-for-tat” strategy. “Tit-for-tat”
means that Firm 1 will cooperate in an alliance if Firm 2
cooperates. However, as soon as Firm 2 cheats on an
alliance, Firm 1 cheats as well. “Tit-for-tat” works well in this
setting because adopting a cooperative posture in an alliance
ensures that, most of the time, the alliance will generate a
high payoff (of $3000). However, by immediately responding
to cheaters by cheating, the firm implementing a “tit-for-tat”
strategy also minimizes the times when it will earn the lowest
payoff in the table ($0). So, “tit-for-tat” maximizes the upside
potential of an alliance while minimizing its downside.

All this analysis suggests that although cheating on an
alliance can give a firm competitive advantage in the short to
medium term, in the long run, “cheaters never prosper.”20
Strategic Alliances and Sustained
Competitive Advantage
Objective 11.4 Describe the conditions under which a strategic
               alliance can be rare and costly to duplicate.


The ability of strategic alliances to be sources of sustained
competitive advantage, like all the other strategies discussed in this
book, can be analyzed with the VRIO framework developed in
Chapter 3 . An alliance is economically valuable when it exploits
any of the opportunities listed in Table 11.1 but avoids the threats
in Table 11.2 . In addition, for a strategic alliance to be a source of
sustained competitive advantage it must be rare and costly to
imitate.
The Rarity of Strategic Alliances
The rarity of strategic alliances does not only depend on the number
of competing firms that have already implemented an alliance. It also
depends on whether the benefits that firms obtain from their
alliances are common across firms competing in an industry.


Consider, for example, the U.S. automobile industry. Over the past
several years, strategic alliances have become very common in this
industry, especially with Japanese auto firms. General Motors
developed an alliance with Toyota that has already been described;
Ford developed an alliance with Mazda before it purchased this
Japanese firm outright; and Chrysler developed an alliance with
Mitsubishi. Given the frequency with which alliances have developed
in this industry, it is tempting to conclude that strategic alliances are
not rare and thus not a source of competitive advantage.


Closer examination, however, suggests that these alliances may
have been created for different reasons. For example, GM and
Toyota cooperated only in building a single line of cars, the Chevrolet
Nova. General Motors was less interested in learning design skills
from Toyota and more interested in learning about manufacturing
high-quality small cars profitably. Ford and Mazda, in contrast,
worked closely together in designing new cars and had joint
manufacturing operations. Indeed, Ford and Mazda worked so
closely together that Ford once purchased 33 percent of Mazda’s
stock. Since 2008, Ford has reduced its investment in Mazda
dramatically. Mitsubishi has acted primarily as a supplier to Chrysler.
Indeed, Nissan recently purchased Mitsubishi. Thus, although all
three U.S. firms have strategic alliances, the alliances serve different
purposes, and therefore each may be rare.21


One of the reasons why the benefits that accrue from a particular
strategic alliance may be rare is that relatively few firms may have
the complementary resources and abilities needed to form an
alliance. This is particularly likely when an alliance is formed to enter
a new market, especially a new foreign market. In many less-
developed economies, only one local firm or very few local firms may
exist with the local knowledge, contacts, and distribution network
needed to facilitate entry into that market. Moreover, sometimes the
government acts to limit the number of these local firms. Although
several firms may seek entry into this market, only a very small
number will be able to form a strategic alliance with the local entity,
and therefore the benefits that accrue to the allied firms will likely be
rare.
The Imitability of Strategic
Alliances
As discussed in Chapter 3 , the resources and capabilities that
enable firms to conceive and implement valuable strategies may be
imitated in two ways: direct duplication and substitution. Both
duplication and substitution are important considerations in analyzing
the imitability of strategic alliances.
Direct Duplication of Strategic Alliances
Research suggests that successful strategic alliances are often
based on socially complex relations among alliance partners.22 In
this sense, successful strategic alliances often go well beyond
simple legal contracts and are characterized by socially complex
phenomena such as a trusting relationship between alliance
partners, friendship, and even (perhaps) a willingness to suspend
narrow self-interest for the longer-term good of the relationship.

Some research has shown that the development of trusting
relationships between alliance partners is both difficult and essential
to the success of strategic alliances. In one study, the most common
reason that alliances failed to meet the expectations of partner firms
was the partners’ inability to trust one another. Interpersonal
communication, tolerance for cultural differences, patience, and
willingness to sacrifice short-term profits for longer-term success
were all important determinants of the level of trust among alliance
partners.23


Of course, not all firms in an industry are likely to have the
organizational and relationship-building skills required for successful
alliance building. If these skills and abilities are rare among a set of
competing firms and costly to develop, then firms that can exploit
these abilities by creating alliances may gain competitive
advantages. Examples of firms that have developed these
specialized skills include Corning and Cisco, with several hundred
strategic alliances each.24
Substitutes for Strategic Alliances
Even if the purpose and objectives of a strategic alliance are
valuable and rare and even if the relationships on which an alliance
is created are socially complex and costly to imitate, that alliance will
still not generate a sustained competitive advantage if low-cost
substitutes are available. At least two possible substitutes for
strategic alliances exist: “going it alone” and acquisitions.25
“Going It Alone”
Firms “go it alone” when they attempt to develop all the resources
and capabilities they need to exploit market opportunities and
neutralize market threats by themselves. Sometimes “going it alone”
can create the same—or even more—value than using alliances to
exploit opportunities and neutralize threats. In these settings, “going
it alone” is a substitute for a strategic alliance. However, in other
settings using an alliance can create substantially more value than
“going it alone.” In these settings, “going it alone” is not a substitute
for a strategic alliance.


So, when will firms prefer an alliance over “going it alone?” Not
surprisingly, the three explanations of vertical integration, discussed
in Chapter 8    , are relevant here as well. These three explanations
focused on the threat of opportunism, the impact of firm resources
and capabilities, and the role of uncertainty. If you need to review
these three explanations, they are described in detail in Chapter
8   . They are relevant here because “going it alone”—as a potential
substitute for a strategic alliance—is an example of vertical
integration. The implications of these three explanations for when
strategic alliances will be preferred over “going it alone” are
summarized in Table 11.3       . If any of the conditions listed in Table
11.3 exist, then “going it alone” will not be a substitute for strategic
alliances.


Table 11.3 When Alliances Will Be Preferred Over “Going It
Alone”
Recall from Chapter 8         that opportunism-based explanations of
vertical integration suggest that firms will want to vertically integrate
an economic exchange when they have made high levels of
transaction-specific investment in that exchange. That is, using
language developed in this chapter, firms will want to vertically
integrate an economic exchange when using an alliance to manage
that exchange could subject them to holdup. Extending this logic to
strategic alliances suggests that strategic alliances will be preferred
over “going it alone” and other alternatives when the level of
transaction-specific investment required to complete an exchange is
moderate. If the level of this specific investment is low, then market
forms of exchange will be preferred; if the level of this specific
investment is high, then “going it alone” in a vertically integrated way
will be preferred; if the level of this specific investment is moderate,
then some sort of strategic alliance will be preferred. Thus, when the
level of specific exchange in a transaction is moderate, then “going it
alone” is not a substitute for a strategic alliance.


Capabilities-based explanations suggest that an alliance will be
preferred over “going it alone” when an exchange partner possesses
valuable, rare, and costly-to-imitate resources and capabilities. A
firm without these capabilities may find them to be too costly to
develop on its own. If a firm must have access to capabilities it
cannot develop on its own, it must use an alliance to gain access to
those capabilities. In this setting, “going it alone” is not a substitute
for a strategic alliance.26
Finally, it has already been suggested that, under conditions of high
uncertainty, firms may be unwilling to commit to a particular course
of action by engaging in an exchange within a firm. In such settings,
firms may choose the strategic flexibility associated with alliances.
As suggested earlier in this chapter, alliances can be thought of as
real options that give a firm the right, but not the obligation, to invest
further in an exchange—perhaps by bringing it within the boundaries
of a firm—if that exchange turns out to be valuable sometime in the
future. Thus, under conditions of high uncertainty, “going it alone” is
not a substitute for strategic alliances.
Acquisitions
The acquisition of other firms can also be a substitute for alliances.
In this case, rather than developing a strategic alliance or attempting
to develop and exploit the relevant resources by “going it alone,” a
firm seeking to exploit the opportunities listed in Table 11.1   may
simply acquire another firm that already possesses the relevant
resources and capabilities. However, such acquisitions have four
characteristics that often limit the extent to which they can act as
substitutes for strategic alliances. These are summarized in Table
11.4   .27


Table 11.4 Reasons Why Strategic Alliances May Be More
Attractive Than Acquisitions to Realize Exchange Opportunities


First, there may be legal constraints on acquisitions. These are
especially likely if firms are seeking advantages by combining with
other firms in their own industry. Thus, for example, using
acquisitions as a substitute for strategic alliances in the aluminum
industry would lead to a very concentrated industry and subject
some of these firms to serious antitrust liabilities. These firms have
acquisitions foreclosed to them and must look elsewhere to gain
advantages from cooperating with their competition.


Second, as has already been suggested, strategic alliances enable a
firm to retain its flexibility either to enter or not to enter a new
business. Acquisitions limit that flexibility because they represent a
strong commitment to engage in a certain business activity.
Consequently, under conditions of high uncertainty, firms may
choose strategic alliances over acquisitions to exploit opportunities
while maintaining the flexibility that alliances create.

Third, firms may choose strategic alliances over acquisitions
because of the unwanted organizational baggage that often comes
with an acquisition. Sometimes, the value created by combining
firms depends on combining particular functions, divisions, or other
assets in the firms. A strategic alliance can focus on exploiting the
value of combining just those parts of firms that create the most
value. Acquisitions, in contrast, generally include the entire
organization, both the parts of a firm where value is likely to be
created and parts of a firm where value is not likely to be created.


From the point of view of the acquiring firm, parts of a firm that do
not create value are essentially unwanted baggage. These parts of
the firm may be sold off subsequent to an acquisition. However, this
sell-off may be costly and time consuming. If enough baggage
exists, firms may determine that an acquisition is not a viable option,
even though important economic value could be created between a
firm and a potential acquisition target. To gain this value, an
alternative approach—a strategic alliance—may be preferred. These
issues will be explored in more detail in Chapter 12       .


Finally, sometimes a firm’s resources and capabilities are valuable
because that firm is independent. In this setting, the act of acquiring
a firm can actually reduce the value of a firm. When this is the case,
any value between two firms is best realized through an alliance, not
an acquisition. For example, the international growth of numerous
marketing-oriented companies in the 1980s led to strong pressures
for advertising agencies to develop global marketing capabilities.
During the 1990s, many domestic-only advertising firms acquired
non-domestic agencies to form a few large international advertising
agencies. However, one firm that was reluctant to be acquired to be
part of an international advertising network was the French
advertising company Publicis. Over and above the personal interests
of its owners to retain control of the company, Publicis wanted to
remain an independent French agency to retain its stable of French
and French-speaking clients—including Renault and Nestlé. These
firms had indicated that they preferred working with a French
advertising agency and that they would look for alternative suppliers
if Publicis were acquired by a foreign firm. Because much of the
value that Publicis created in a potential acquisition depended on
obtaining access to its stable of clients, the act of acquiring Publicis
would have had the effect of destroying the very thing that made the
acquisition attractive. For this reason, rather than allowing itself to be
acquired by foreign advertising agencies, Publicis developed a
complex equity strategic alliance and joint venture with a U.S.
advertising firm, Foote, Coyne, and Belding. Although, ultimately, this
alliance was not successful in providing an international network for
either of these two partner firms, an acquisition of Publicis by Foote,
Coyne, and Belding would almost certainly have destroyed some of
the economic value that Publicis enjoyed as a stand-alone company.
Organizing to Implement Strategic
Alliances
Objective 11.5 Describe how contracts, equity investments, firm
               reputations, joint ventures, and trust can all reduce
               the threat of cheating in strategic alliances.

One of the most important determinants of the success of strategic
alliances is their organization. The primary purpose of organizing a
strategic alliance is to enable partners in the alliance to gain all the
benefits associated with cooperation while minimizing the probability
that cooperating firms will cheat on their cooperative agreements.
The organizing skills required in managing alliances are, in many
ways, unique. It often takes some time for firms to learn these skills
and realize the full potential of their alliances. Therefore, some firms
can gain competitive advantages from managing alliances more
effectively than their competitors. Indeed, sometimes firms may have
to choose alternatives to alliances—including “going it alone” and
acquisitions—even when those alternatives are not preferred, simply
because they do not have the skills required to organize and
manage alliances.


A variety of tools and mechanisms can be used to help realize the
value of alliances and minimize the threat of cheating. These include
contracts, equity investments, firm reputations, joint ventures, and
trust.
Explicit Contracts and Legal
Sanctions
One way to avoid cheating in strategic alliances is for the parties to
an alliance to anticipate the ways in which cheating may occur
(including adverse selection, moral hazard, and holdup) and to write
explicit contracts that define legal liability if cheating does occur.
Writing these contracts, together with the close monitoring of
contractual compliance and the threat of legal sanctions, can reduce
the probability of cheating. Earlier in this chapter, such strategic
alliances were called nonequity alliances.


However, contracts sometimes fail to anticipate all forms of cheating
that might occur in a relationship—and firms may cheat on
cooperative agreements in subtle ways that are difficult to evaluate
in terms of contractual requirements. Thus, for example, a contract
may require parties in a strategic alliance to make available to the
alliance certain proprietary technologies or processes. However, it
may be very difficult to communicate the subtleties of these
technologies or processes to alliance partners. Does this failure in
communication represent a clear violation of contractual
requirements, or does it represent a good-faith effort by alliance
partners? Moreover, how can one partner tell whether it is obtaining
all the necessary information about a technology or process when it
is unaware of all the information that exists in another firm? Hence,
although contracts are an important component of most strategic
alliances, they do not resolve all the problems associated with
cheating.


Although most contracts associated with strategic alliances are
highly customized, these different contracts do have some common
features. These common features are described in detail in Table
11.5   . In general, firms contemplating a strategic alliance that will
be at least partially governed by a contract must include clauses that
address the issues presented in Table 11.5      .

Table 11.5 Common Clauses in Contracts Used to Govern
Strategic Alliances
Equity Investments
The effectiveness of contracts can be enhanced by having partners
in an alliance make equity investments in each other. When Firm A
buys a substantial equity position in its alliance partner, Firm B, the
market value of Firm A now depends, to some extent, on the
economic performance of that partner. The incentive of Firm A to
cheat Firm B falls, for to do so would be to reduce the economic
performance of Firm B and thus the value of Firm A’s investment in
its partner. These kinds of strategic alliances are called equity
alliances.


Many firms use cross-equity investments to help manage their
strategic alliances. These arrangements are particularly common in
Japan, where a firm’s largest equity holders often include several of
its key suppliers, including its main banks. These equity investments,
because they reduce the threat of cheating in alliances with
suppliers, can reduce these firms’ supply costs. In turn, not only do
firms have equity positions in their suppliers, but suppliers often have
substantial equity positions in the firms to which they sell.28
Firm Reputations
A third constraint on incentives to cheat in strategic alliances exists
in the effect that a reputation for cheating has on a firm’s future
opportunities. Although it is often difficult to anticipate all the different
ways in which an alliance partner may cheat, it is often easier to
describe after the fact how an alliance partner has cheated.
Information about an alliance partner that has cheated is likely to
become widely known. A firm with a reputation as a cheater is not
likely to be able to develop strategic alliances with other partners in
the future, despite any special resources or capabilities that it might
be able to bring to an alliance. In this way, cheating in a current
alliance may foreclose opportunities for developing other valuable
alliances. For this reason, firms may decide not to cheat in their
current alliances.29


Substantial evidence suggests that the effect of reputation on future
business opportunities is important. Firms go to great lengths to
make sure that they do not develop a negative reputation.
Nevertheless, this reputational control of cheating in strategic
alliances does have several limitations.30


First, subtle cheating in a strategic alliance may not become public,
and if it does become public, the responsibility for the failure of the
strategic alliance may be very ambiguous. In one equity joint venture
attempting to perfect the design of a new turbine for power
generation, financial troubles made one partner considerably more
anxious than the other partner to complete product development.
The financially healthy, and thus patient, partner believed that if the
alliance required an additional infusion of capital, the financially
troubled partner would have to abandon the alliance and would have
to sell its part of the alliance at a relatively low price. The patient
partner thus encouraged alliance engineers to work slowly and
carefully in the guise of developing the technology to reach its full
potential. The financially troubled, and thus impatient, partner
encouraged alliance engineers to work quickly, perhaps sacrificing
some quality to develop the technology sooner. Eventually, the
impatient partner ran out of money, sold its share of the alliance to
the patient partner at a reduced price, and accused the patient
partner of not acting in good faith to facilitate the rapid development
of the new technology. The patient partner accused the other firm of
pushing the technology too quickly, thereby sacrificing quality and,
perhaps, worker safety. In some sense, both firms were cheating on
their agreement to develop the new technology cooperatively.
However, this cheating was subtle and difficult to spot and had
relatively little impact on the reputation of either firm or on the ability
of either firm to establish alliances in the future. It is likely that most
observers would simply conclude that the patient partner obtained a
windfall because of the impatient partner’s bad luck.31


Second, although one partner to an alliance may be unambiguously
cheating on the relationship, one or both firms may not be sufficiently
connected into a network with other firms to make this information
public. When information about cheating remains private, public
reputations are not tarnished and future opportunities are not
forgone. This is especially likely to happen if one or both alliance
partners operate in less-developed economies where information
about partner behavior may not be rapidly diffused to other firms or
to other countries.


Finally, the effect of a tarnished reputation, if cheating in an alliance
is unambiguous and publicly known, may foreclose future
opportunities for a firm, but it does little to address the current losses
experienced by the firm that was cheated. Moreover, any of the
forms of cheating discussed earlier—adverse selection, moral
hazard, or holdup—can result in substantial losses for a firm
currently in an alliance. Indeed, the wealth created by cheating in a
current alliance may be large enough to make a firm willing to forgo
future alliances. In this case, a tarnished reputation may be of minor
consequence to a cheating firm.32
Joint Ventures
A fourth way to reduce the threat of cheating is for partners in a
strategic alliance to invest in a joint venture. Creating a separate
legal entity, in which alliance partners invest and from whose profits
they earn returns on their investments, reduces some of the risks of
cheating in strategic alliances. When a joint venture is created, the
ability of partners to earn returns on their investments depends on
the economic success of the joint venture. Partners in joint ventures
have limited interests in behaving in ways that hurt the performance
of the joint venture because such behaviors end up hurting both
partners. Moreover, unlike reputational consequences of cheating,
cheating in a joint venture does not just foreclose future alliance
opportunities; it can hurt the cheating firm in the current period as
well.


Given the advantages of joint ventures in controlling cheating, it is
not surprising that when the probability of cheating in a cooperative
relationship is greatest, a joint venture is usually the preferred form
of cooperation. For example, bauxite mining has some clear
economies of scale. However, transaction-specific investments
would lead to significant holdup problems in selling excess bauxite in
the open market, and legal constraints prevent the acquisition of
other smelter companies to create an intraorganizational demand for
excess bauxite. Holdup problems would continue to exist in any
mining strategic alliances that might be created. Nonequity alliances,
equity alliances, and reputational effects are not likely to restrain
cheating in this situation because the returns on holdup, once
transaction-specific investments are in place, can be very large.
Thus, most of the strategic alliances created to mine bauxite take the
form of joint ventures. Only this form of strategic alliance is likely to
create incentives strong enough to significantly reduce the
probability of cheating.33


Despite these strengths, joint ventures are not able to reduce all
cheating in an alliance without cost. Sometimes the value of cheating
in a joint venture is sufficiently large that a firm cheats even though
doing so hurts the joint venture and forecloses future opportunities.
For example, a particular firm may gain access to a technology
through a joint venture that would be valuable if used in another of its
lines of business. This firm may be tempted to transfer this
technology to this other line of business even if it has agreed not to
do so and even if doing so would limit the performance of its joint
venture. Because the profits earned in this other line of business
may have a greater value than the returns that could have been
earned in the joint venture and the returns that could have been
earned in the future with other strategic alliances, cheating may
occur.
Trust
It is sometimes the case that alliance partners rely only on legalistic
and narrowly economic approaches to manage their alliance.
However, recent work seems to suggest that although successful
alliance partners do not ignore legal and economic disincentives to
cheating, they strongly support these narrower linkages with a rich
set of interpersonal relations and trust. Trust, in combination with
contracts, can help reduce the threat of cheating. More important,
trust may enable partners to explore exchange opportunities that
they could not explore if only legal and economic organizing
mechanisms were in place.34


At first glance, this argument may seem far-fetched. However, some
research offers support for this approach to managing strategic
alliances, suggesting that successful alliance partners typically do
not specify all the terms and conditions in their relationship in a legal
contract and do not specify all possible forms of cheating and their
consequences. Moreover, when joint ventures are formed, partners
do not always insist on simple 50/50 splits of equity ownership and
profit sharing. Rather, successful alliances involve trust, a willingness
to be flexible, a willingness to learn, and a willingness to let the
alliance develop in ways that the partners could not have
anticipated.35


Commitment, coordination, and trust are all important determinants
of alliance success. Put another way, a strategic alliance is a
relationship that evolves over time. Allowing the lawyers and
economists to too rigorously define, a priori, the boundaries of that
relationship may limit it and stunt its development.36


This “trust” approach also has implications for the extent to which
strategic alliances may be sources of sustained competitive
advantage for firms. The ability to move into strategic alliances in this
trusting way may be very valuable over the long run. There is strong
reason to believe that this ability is not uniformly distributed across
all firms that might have an interest in forming strategic alliances and
that this ability may be history-dependent and socially complex and
thus costly to imitate. Firms with these skills may be able to gain
sustained competitive advantages from their alliance relationships.
The observation that just a few firms, including Corning and Cisco,
are well-known for their strategic alliance successes is consistent
with the observation that these alliance management skills may be
valuable, rare, and costly to imitate.
Summary
Strategic alliances exist whenever two or more organizations
cooperate in the development, manufacture, or sale of products or
services. Strategic alliances can be grouped into three large
categories: nonequity alliances, equity alliances, and joint ventures.


Firms join in strategic alliances for three broad reasons: to improve
the performance of their current operations, to improve the
competitive environment within which they are operating, and to
facilitate entry into or exit from markets and industries. Just as there
are incentives to cooperate in strategic alliances, there are also
incentives to cheat. Cheating generally takes one or a combination
of three forms: adverse selection, moral hazard, or holdup.

Strategic alliances can be a source of sustained competitive
advantage. The rarity of alliances depends not only on the number of
competing firms that have developed an alliance, but also on the
benefits that firms gain through their alliances.


Imitation through direct duplication of an alliance may be costly
because of the socially complex relations that underlie an alliance;
however, imitation through substitution is more likely. Two substitutes
for alliances may be “going it alone,” where firms develop and exploit
the relevant sets of resources and capabilities on their own, and
acquisitions. Opportunism, capabilities, and uncertainty all have an
impact on when “going it alone” will be a substitute for a strategic
alliance. Acquisitions may be a substitute for strategic alliances
when there are no legal constraints, strategic flexibility is not an
important consideration, when the acquired firm has relatively little
unwanted “organizational baggage,” and when the value of a firm’s
resources and capabilities does not depend on its remaining
independent. However, when these conditions do not exist,
acquisitions are not a substitute for alliances.


The key issue facing firms in organizing their alliances is to facilitate
cooperation while avoiding the threat of cheating. Contracts, equity
investments, firm reputations, joint ventures, and trust can all reduce
the threat of cheating in different contexts.




       MyLab Management
       Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management to
       complete the problems marked with this icon       .
Challenge Questions
   11.1. One reason firms might want to pursue a strategic
   alliance strategy is to exploit economies of scale. Exploiting
   economies of scale should reduce a firm’s costs. Why would
   this mean that a firm pursuing an alliance strategy to exploit
   economies of scale is actually pursuing a cost leadership
   strategy?
   11.2. Consider the joint venture between General Motors and
   Toyota. GM was interested in learning how to profitably
   manufacture high-quality small cars from its alliance with
   Toyota. Toyota was interested in gaining access to GM’s U.S.
   distribution network and in reducing the political liability
   associated with local content laws. Which of these firms do
   you think was more likely to accomplish its objectives, and
   why? What implications, if any, does this alliance have for a
   possible “learning race?”
   11.3. Some researchers have argued that strategic alliances
   are one way in which firms can help facilitate the development
   of a tacit collusion strategy. In your view, what are the critical
   differences between tacit collusion strategies and strategic
   alliance strategies?
       11.4. How can one tell whether two firms are engaging in
   an alliance to facilitate collusion or are engaging in an alliance
   for other purposes?
11.5. Some researchers have argued that alliances can be
used to help firms evaluate the economic potential of entering
a new industry or market. Under what conditions will a firm
seeking to evaluate these opportunities need to invest in an
alliance to accomplish this evaluation?
11.6. Some researchers have argued that alliances can be
used to help firms evaluate the economic potential of entering
a new industry or market. Why couldn’t such a firm simply hire
some smart managers, consultants, and industry experts to
evaluate the economic potential of entering a new industry?
   11.7. Some researchers have argued that alliances can be
used to help firms evaluate the economic potential of entering
a new industry or market. What, if anything, about an alliance
makes this a better way to evaluate entry opportunities than
alternative methods?
11.8. If adverse selection, moral hazard, and holdup are such
significant problems for firms pursuing alliance strategies, why
do firms even bother with alliances?
11.9. If adverse selection, moral hazard, and holdup are such
significant problems for firms pursuing alliance strategies, why
don’t they instead adopt a “go it alone” strategy to replace
strategic alliances?
Problem Set
  11.10. Which of the following firms faces the greater threat of
  “cheating” in the alliances described, and why?
      a. Firm I and Firm II form a strategic alliance. As part of
         the alliance, Firm I agrees to build a new plant right
         next to Firm II’s primary facility. In return, Firm II
         promises to buy most of the output of this new plant.
         Which is at risk, Firm I or Firm II?
      b. Firm A and Firm B form a strategic alliance. As part of
         the alliance, Firm A promises to begin selling products
         it already sells around the world in the home country of
         Firm B. In return, Firm B promises to provide Firm A
         with crucial contacts in its home country’s government.
         These contacts are essential if Firm A is going to be
         able to sell in Firm B’s home country. Which is at risk,
         Firm A or Firm B?
      c. Firm 1 and Firm 2 form a strategic alliance. As part of
         the alliance, Firm 1 promises to provide Firm 2 access
         to some new and untested technology that Firm 2 will
         use in its products. In return, Firm 2 will share some of
         the profits from its sales with Firm 1. Which is at risk,
         Firm 1 or Firm 2?


  11.11. For each of the strategic alliances described in the
  above question, what actions could be taken to reduce the
likelihood that partner firms will “cheat” in these alliances?
11.12. Examine the Web sites of the following strategic
alliances and determine which of the sources of value
presented in Table 11.1 are present:
    a. Dow-Corning (an alliance between Dow Chemical and
       Corning)
    b. CFM (an alliance between General Electric and
       SNECMA)
    c. NCAA (an alliance among colleges and universities in
       the United States)
    d. Visa (an alliance among banks in the United States)
    e. The alliance among United, Delta, Singapore Airlines,
       AeroMexico, Alitalia, and Korean Air
MyLab Management
Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management for
Auto-graded writing questions as well as the following
Assisted-graded writing questions:


         11.13. How would a firm’s reputation reduce
      the threat of cheating in a strategic alliance?
        11.14. How can holdup be considered a form
      of cheating in strategic alliances and threat of
      holdup be considered a motivation for creating
      an alliance?
End Notes
1    See news.Wal-Mart.com/2016/06/20/Wal-Mart-and-JDcom-announce-strategic-
alliance-to-serve-consummers-across-china; www.businessinser.com/r-in-china-us-teach-
firms-turn-to-domestic-rivals-for-survival-2015-1; https://bol.bna.com/mcguirewoods-
joins-those-creating-alliances-with-chinese-firms; http://techcrunch.com/2016/06/20/
Wal-Mart-sells-yihaodian-its-chinese-e-commerce-marketplace-to-alibaba-rival-jd-
com. All accessed March 6, 2017.
2    See www.pwc.com/extweb/exccps.nsf/docid; www.addme.com/issue208;
McCracken, J. (2006). “Ford doubles reported loss for second quarter.” The Wall Street
Journal, August 3, p. A3; and www.msnbc.msn.com/id/13753688.
3    Badaracco, J. L., and N. Hasegawa. (1988). “General Motors’ Asian alliances.”
Harvard Business School Case No. 9-388-094.
4    S. A. Alvarez and J. B. Barney (2001). “How entrepreneurial firms can benefit from
alliances with large partners.” Academy of Management Executive, 15, pp. 139–148; G.
Hamel (1991). “Competition for competence and inter-partner learning within international
alliances.” Strategic Management Journal, 12, pp. 83–103; W. Cohen and D. Levinthal
(1990). “Absorptive capacity: A new perspective on learning and innovation.” Administrative
Science Quarterly, 35, pp. 128–152.
5    www.HollywoodReporter.com/lists/2016s-biggest-box-office-bombs. Accessed March
6, 2017.
6    See www.blu-ray.com.
7    See Burgers, W. P., C. W. L. Hill, and W. C. Kim. (1993). “A theory of global strategic
alliances: The case of the global auto industry.” Strategic Management Journal, 14, pp.
419–432.
8    F. M. Scherer (1980). Industrial market structure and economic performance. Boston:
Houghton Mifflin; J. B. Barney (2006). Gaining and sustaining competitive advantage, 3rd
ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall; J. Pfeffer and P. Nowak (1976). “Patterns of joint
venture activity: Implications for anti-trust research.” Antitrust Bulletin, 21, pp. 315–339.
9    See Freeman, A., and R. Hudson. (1980). “DuPont and Philips plan joint venture to
make, market laser disc products.” The Wall Street Journal, December 22, p. 10.
10      Teitelbaum, R. S. (1992). “Eskimo pie.” Fortune, June 15, p. 123.
11      Nanda, A., and C. A. Bartlett. (1990). “Corning Incorporated: A network of alliances.”
Harvard Business School Case No. 9-391-102.
12      See Knight, F. H. (1965). Risk, uncertainty, and profit. New York: John Wiley & Sons,
Inc., on uncertainty; Kogut, B. (1991). “Joint ventures and the option to expand and
acquire.” Management Science, 37, pp. 19–33; Burgers, W. P., C. W. L. Hill, and W. C. Kim.
(1993). “A theory of global strategic alliances: The case of the global auto industry.”
Strategic Management Journal, 14, pp. 419–432; Noldeke, G., and K. M. Schmidt. (1998).
“Sequential investments and options to own.” Rand Journal of Economics, 29(4), pp. 633–
653; and Folta, T. B. (1998). “Governance and uncertainty: The tradeoff between
administrative control and commitment.” Strategic Management Journal, 19, pp. 1007–
1028.
13      See Kogut, B. (1991). “Joint ventures and the option to expand and acquire.”
Management Science, 37, pp. 19–33; and Balakrishnan, S., and M. Koza. (1993).
“Information asymmetry, adverse selection and joint-ventures.” Journal of Economic
Behavior & Organization, 20, pp. 99–117.
14      See, for example, Ernst, D., and J. Bleeke. (1993). Collaborating to compete: Using
strategic alliances and acquisition in the global marketplace. New York: John Wiley & Sons,
Inc.
15      These terms are defined in Barney, J. B., and W. G. Ouchi. (1986). Organizational
economics. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass; and Holmstrom, B. (1979). “Moral hazard and
observability.” Bell Journal of Economics, 10(1), pp. 74–91. Problems of cheating in
economic exchanges in general, and in alliances in particular, are discussed by Gulati, R.,
and H. Singh. (1998). “The architecture of cooperation: Managing coordination costs and
appropriation concerns in strategic alliances.” Administrative Science Quarterly, 43, pp.
781–814; Williamson, O. E. (1991). “Comparative economic organization: The analysis of
discrete structural alternatives.” Administrative Science Quarterly, 36, pp. 269–296; Osborn,
R. N., and C. C. Baughn. (1990). “Forms of interorganizational governance for multinational
alliances.” Academy of Management Journal, 33(3), pp. 503–519; Hagedoorn, J., and R.
Narula. (1996). “Choosing organizational modes of strategic technology partnering:
International and sectoral differences.” Journal of International Business Studies, second
quarter, pp. 265–284; Hagedorn, J. (1996). “Trends and patterns in strategic technology
partnering since the early seventies.” Review of Industrial Organization, 11, pp. 601–616;
Kent, D. H. (1991). “Joint ventures vs. non-joint ventures: An empirical investigation.”
Strategic Management Journal, 12, pp. 387–393; and Shane, S. A. (1998). “Making new
franchise systems work.” Strategic Management Journal, 19, pp. 697–707.
16     Such alliance difficulties are described in Ouchi, W. G. (1984). The M-form society:
How American teamwork can capture the competitive edge. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley;
and Bresser, R. K. (1988). “Cooperative strategy.” Strategic Management Journal, 9, pp.
475–492.
17     Pope, K. (1993). “Dealers accuse Compaq of jilting them.” The Wall Street Journal,
February 26, pp. 8, B1+
18     Williamson, O. E. (1975). Markets and hierarchies: Analysis and antitrust
implications. New York: Free Press; Klein, B., R. Crawford, and A. Alchian. (1978). “Vertical
integration, appropriable rents, and the competitive contracting process.” Journal of Law
and Economics, 21, pp. 297–326.
19     See, for example, Yan, A., and B. Gray. (1994). “Bargaining power, management
control, and performance in United States–China joint ventures: A comparative case study.”
Academy of Management Journal, 37, pp. 1478–1517.
20     R. M. Axelrod (1984). The evolution of cooperation. New York: Basic Books; D. Ernst
and J. Bleeke (1993). Collaborating to compete. New York: Wiley.
21     See Badaracco, J. L., and N. Hasegawa. (1988). “General Motors’ Asian alliances.”
Harvard Business School Case No. 9-388-094, on GM and Toyota; Patterson, G. A. (1991).
“Mazda hopes to crack Japan’s top tier.” The Wall Street Journal, September 20, pp. B1+
and Williams, M., and M. Kanabayashi. (1993). “Mazda and Ford drop proposal to build cars
together in Europe.” The Wall Street Journal, March 4, p. A14, on Ford and Mazda; and
Ennis, P. (1991). “Mitsubishi group wary of deeper ties to Chrysler.” Tokyo Business Today,
59, July, p. 10, on DaimlerChrysler and Mitsubishi, and www.reuters.com/article/US-
mitsubishimotors-nissan-idUSKCN12K0DX accessed March 3, 2017.
22     See, for example, Ernst, D., and J. Bleeke. (1993). Collaborating to compete: Using
strategic alliances and acquisition in the global marketplace. New York: John Wiley & Sons,
Inc.; and Barney, J. B., and M. H. Hansen. (1994). “Trustworthiness as a source of
competitive advantage.” Strategic Management Journal, 15, winter (special issue), pp. 175–
190.
23     Ernst, D., and J. Bleeke. (1993). Collaborating to compete: Using strategic alliances
and acquisition in the global marketplace. New York: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
24     Bartlett, C., and S. Ghoshal. (1993). “Beyond the M-form: Toward a managerial
theory of the firm.” Strategic Management Journal, 14, pp. 23–46.
25    See Nagarajan, A., and W. Mitchell. (1998). “Evolutionary diffusion: Internal and
external methods used to acquire encompassing, complementary, and incremental
technological changes in the lithotripsy industry.” Strategic Management Journal, 19, pp.
1063–1077; Hagedoorn, J., and B. Sadowski. (1999). “The transition from strategic
technology alliances to mergers and acquisitions: An exploratory study.” Journal of
Management Studies, 36(1), pp. 87–107; and Newburry, W., and Y. Zeira. (1997). “Generic
differences between equity international joint ventures (EIJVs), international acquisitions
(IAs) and International Greenfield investments (IGIs): Implications for parent companies.”
Journal of World Business, 32(2), pp. 87–102, on alliance substitutes.
26    Barney, J. B. (1999). “How a firm’s capabilities affect boundary decisions.” Sloan
Management Review, 40(3), pp. 137–145.
27    See Hennart, J. F. (1988). “A transaction cost theory of equity joint ventures.”
Strategic Management Journal, 9, pp. 361–374; Kogut, B. (1988). “Joint ventures:
Theoretical and empirical perspectives.” Strategic Management Journal, 9, pp. 319–332;
and Barney, J. B. (1999). “How a firm’s capabilities affect boundary decisions.” Sloan
Management Review, 40(3), pp. 137–145, for a discussion of these limitations.
28    See Ouchi, W. G. (1984). The M-form society: How American teamwork can capture
the competitive edge. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley; and Barney, J. B. (1990). “Profit
sharing bonuses and the cost of debt: Business finance and compensation policy in
Japanese electronics firms.” Asia Pacific Journal of Management, 7, pp. 49–64.
29    This is an argument developed by Barney, J. B., and M. H. Hansen. (1994).
“Trustworthiness as a source of competitive advantage.” Strategic Management Journal, 15,
winter (special issue), pp. 175–190; Weigelt, K., and C. Camerer. (1988). “Reputation and
corporate strategy: A review of recent theory and applications.” Strategic Management
Journal, 9, pp. 443–454; and Granovetter, M. (1985). “Economic action and social structure:
The problem of embeddedness.” American Journal of Sociology, 3, pp. 481–510.
30    See, for example, Eichenseher, J., and D. Shields. (1985). “Reputation and corporate
strategy: A review of recent theory and applications.” Strategic Management Journal, 9, pp.
443–454; Beatty, R., and R. Ritter. (1986). “Investment banking, reputation, and the
underpricing of initial public offerings.” Journal of Financial Economics, 15, pp. 213–232;
Kalleberg, A. L., and T. Reve. (1992). “Contracts and commitment: Economic and
Sociological Perspectives on Employment Relations.” Human Relations, 45(9), pp. 1103–
1132; Larson, A. (1992). “Network dyads in entrepreneurial settings: A study of the
governance of exchange relationships.” Administrative Science Quarterly, March, pp. 76–
104; Stuart, T. E., H. Hoang, and R. C. Hybels. (1999). “Interorganizational endorsements
and the performance of entrepreneurial ventures.” Administrative Science Quarterly, 44, pp.
315–349; Stuart, T. E. (1998). “Network positions and propensities to collaborate: An
investigation of strategic alliance formation in a high-technology industry.” Administrative
Science Quarterly, 43(3), pp. 668–698; and Gulati, R. (1998). “Alliances and networks.”
Strategic Management Journal, 19, pp. 293–317.
31     Personal communication, April 8, 1986.
32     This same theoretic approach to firm reputation is discussed in Tirole, J. (1988). The
theory of industrial organization. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
33     Scherer, F. M. (1980). Industrial market structure and economic performance. Boston:
Houghton Mifflin.
34     See, again, Ernst, D., and J. Bleeke. (1993). Collaborating to compete: Using
strategic alliances and acquisition in the global marketplace. New York: John Wiley & Sons,
Inc.; and Barney, J. B., and M. H. Hansen. (1994). “Trustworthiness as a source of
competitive advantage.” Strategic Management Journal, 15, winter (special issue), pp. 175–
190. In fact, there is a great deal of literature on the role of trust in strategic alliances. Some
of the most interesting of this work can be found in Holm, D. B., K. Eriksson, and J.
Johanson. (1999). “Creating value through mutual commitment to business network
relationships.” Strategic Management Journal, 20, pp. 467–486; Lorenzoni, G., and A.
Lipparini. (1999). “The leveraging of interfirm relationships as a distinctive organizational
capability: A longitudinal study.” Strategic Management Journal, 20(4), pp. 317–338; Blois,
K. J. (1999). “Trust in business to business relationships: An evaluation of its status.”
Journal of Management Studies, 36(2), pp. 197–215; Chiles, T. H., and J. F. McMackin.
(1996). “Integrating variable risk preferences, trust, and transaction cost economics.”
Academy of Management Review, 21(1), pp. 73–99; Larzelere, R. E., and T. L. Huston.
(1980). “The dyadic trust scale: Toward understanding interpersonal trust in close
relationships.” Journal of Marriage and the Family, August, pp. 595–604; Butler, J. K., Jr.
(1983). “Reciprocity of trust between professionals and their secretaries.” Psychological
Reports, 53, pp. 411–416; Zaheer, A., and N. Venkatraman. (1995). “Relational governance
as an interorganizational strategy: An empirical test of the role of trust in economic
exchange.” Strategic Management Journal, 16, pp. 373–392; Butler, J. K., Jr., and R. S.
Cantrell. (1984). “A behavioral decision theory approach to modeling dyadic trust in
superiors and subordinates.” Psychological Reports, 55, pp. 19–28; Carney, M. (1998). “The
competitiveness of networked production: The role of trust and asset specificity.” Journal of
Management Studies, 35(4), pp. 457–479.
35    Ernst, D., and J. Bleeke. (1993). Collaborating to compete: Using strategic alliances
and acquisition in the global marketplace. New York: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
36    See Mohr, J., and R. Spekman. (1994). “Characteristics of partnership success:
Partnership attributes, communication behavior, and conflict resolution techniques.”
Strategic Management Journal, 15, pp. 135–152; and Zaheer, A., and N. Venkatraman.
(1995). “Relational governance as an interorganizational strategy: An empirical test of the
role of trust in economic exchange.” Strategic Management Journal, 16, pp. 373–392.
Chapter 12 Mergers and
Acquisitions
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to:


               12.1 Describe different types of mergers and
               acquisitions.
               12.2 Describe how mergers and acquisitions can
               create economic value:
                   a. When bidding and target firms share no
                      economies of scope
                   b. When bidding and target firms share
                      economies of scope
                   c. Why firms might engage in these strategies
                      even when, on average, they do not create
                      profits for bidding firms.


               12.3 Describe three ways that bidding firms
               might be able to generate economic profits from
               implementing mergers or acquisitions.
               12.4 Describe the major challenges that firms
               integrating acquisitions are likely to face.
MyLab Management
  Improve Your Grade!


If your instructor is using MyLab Management, visit
www.pearson.com/mylab/management for
simulations, tutorials, and end-of-chapter problems.
The Travails of Technology
Acquisitions
The modern consumer electronics industry began, in many
ways, with an unbelievably successful acquisition.




Ian Dagnall/Alamy Stock Photo




In 1980, IBM approached Microsoft about possibly supplying
computer programming languages—BASIC, FORTRAN,
COBAL, and Pascal—for IBM’s new PC. IBM managers also
asked Microsoft about a PC operating system. Microsoft did
not have such a system and suggested that IBM contact
Digital Research Inc. (DRI) who was selling the defacto
standard operating system for personal computers—CP/M
(Control Program for Microcomputers). For some reason—
accounts vary—IBM and DRI were not able to come to an
agreement. IBM returned to Microsoft who located an
operating system built by Tim Patterson of Seattle Computer
Products. Microsoft obtained access to this operating system
—called QDOS (for Quick and Dirty Operating System). The
price: $10,000 down and $15,000 for each company that
licensed QDOS. If, say, 20 PC companies licensed QDOS,
the payment to Seattle Computer Products would be $10,000
+ 20(15,000) = $310,000.

Of course, QDOS led to MS-DOS (Microsoft Disc Operating
System), which led to Windows, Windows made Microsoft
Office possible, and the rest is history. In 2010, the Microsoft
Windows franchise was valued at $110 billion; the Microsoft
Office franchise was valued at $86 billion. These franchises
are worth substantially more today. Not a bad return on an
initial at risk investment of $10,000.

Since then, the track record of Microsoft’s acquisitions has
been spotty. Microsoft has made over 150 acquisitions. Some
still have promise, e.g., Microsoft’s purchase of Skype. But
many have destroyed substantial value for Microsoft’s
owners. For example, in 1997, Microsoft purchased the
television based e-mail company WebTV for $425 million only
to close the MS TV business in 2013; in 2007, Microsoft
purchased the online advertising company aQuantitative for
$6 billion, only to see most of its senior executives leave
within a couple of years and Microsoft abandon the
technology shortly thereafter; in a play to obtain the services
of Ray Ozzie, Microsoft bought Ozzie’s firm Groove for $171
million in 2005, only to see Ozzie leave Microsoft in 2010 and
Groove’s file sharing technology abandoned; and in 2013,
Microsoft purchased mobile phone manufacturer Nokia for
$7.9 billion, only to write off $7.6 billion of this acquisition less
than two years later.

Of course, Microsoft is not the only tech company that has
destroyed value through its acquisition strategy. Yahoo spent
$4 billion on Geocities, a software that was abandoned just a
few years later; Hewlett-Packard paid $1.2 billion for Palm, an
unsuccessful competitor for Apple’s iPad; Cisco spent $590
million for Pure Digital, only to shut it down two years later; in
2000, Terra Networks spent $12.5 billion acquiring search
engine company Lycos, but by 2004, Lycos was only valued
at $95 million; and Newscorporation purchased the Facebook
competitor MySpace in 2005 for $580 million and sold it in
2011 (to Specific Media Group and Justin Timberlake) for $35
million.

Ouch! As this chapter shows, it is difficult—but not impossible
—for acquiring firms to make money through acquisitions. Not
only must an acquiring firm identify targets whose acquisition
has the potential for creating economic value, they must pay a
price for these acquisitions that makes it possible to
appropriate at least some of that value, and then they must
actually realize this potential. Add uncertainty about customer
demand, rapid technological change, “winner take all”
   technological battles, and rapidly changing firm valuations and
   it may be even more difficult to make money through
   acquisitions in technology industries than in other industries.

   On the other hand, a couple of QDOS acquisitions can make
   up for lots of failed acquisition attempts. 1

Of course, acquisitions are not limited to just the technology sector.
In 2016, large non-technology acquisitions included Bayer’s
purchase of Monsanto for $66 billion (in the agricultural products
industry), British American Tobacco’s purchase of Reynolds
American for $58 billion (in the tobacco industry), Sunoco Logistics
acquisition of Energy Transfer Partners for $52 billion (in the oil and
gas transportation industry), Shire’s purchase of Baxala for $32
billion (in the specialty pharmaceutical industry), Abbott Laboratories
purchase of St. Jude Medical (in the medical technology industry) for
$30.6 billion, and Johnson Controls acquisition of Tyco International
for $16.6 billion. Indeed, mergers and acquisitions are one very
common way that a firm can accomplish its vertical integration and
diversification objectives.


However, although a firm may be able to accomplish its vertical
integration and diversification objectives through mergers or
acquisitions, it is sometimes difficult to generate real economic profit
from doing so. Indeed, one of the strongest empirical findings in the
fields of strategic management and finance is that, on average, the
equity holders of target firms in mergers and acquisitions make
money while the equity holders of bidding firms in these same
mergers and acquisitions usually only “break even.”
That mergers and acquisitions often do not generate economic
profits for acquiring firms is not the only controversial aspect of this
strategic option. Indeed, it may be the case that there are more
ethical issues associated with this strategy than any other
strategy discussed in this text. These issues are discussed in the
Ethics and Strategy       feature.
E T H I C S A N D S T R AT E G Y
Is Greed Good?


In the 1987 movie Wall Street—required viewing for every
business student, even in the 21st century—corporate raider
Gordon Gecko (played by Michael Douglas in rare form)
lectures a stockholder’s meeting about the morality of
unfriendly takeovers. In justifying his approach to investing,
Gecko utters the now famous phrase “Greed is good.” What
he means by this is that his efforts to make money by
acquiring the stock of underperforming firms gives firms
strong incentives to address their customer’s needs as
efficiently and effectively as possible. In a sense, Gecko is
arguing that “corporate raiders” help make sure that product
markets are highly competitive and that—per economic
theory—should mean that social welfare is maximized. While
his language is harsh, his underlying message is consistent
with economic theory.

Or is it?

In the movie, Gecko earns his money by trading on insider
information. This is illegal in the United States and many
developed countries, and in the end, Gecko goes to jail. But
should insider trading be illegal? Some have argued that the
primary concern of main street investors, i.e., those who are
not focused on trading stocks as their only source of income,
is that any information about the value of a firm be revealed to
the market. That a few people, with privileged information,
earn a profit from making this information public does not
mean that main street investors will not also benefit from this
information. From this point of view, insider trading should be
legal.

Or maybe it should be illegal.

Another way that Gecko makes money in the movie is by
breaking up the companies he buys, selling off the parts to
the highest bidders. This can have an adverse effect on the
stability of the employment in the firms he targets. Indeed,
acquisitions often lead to layoffs and corporate downsizing.
Some early work suggests that after this downsizing, firm
employment recovers and then actually grows. Usually, but
not always, these actions increase the wealth of a firm’s
shareholders. Today, this function in the economy is usually
delegated to private equity firms, not corporate raiders.
Maybe a firm should focus its efforts only on maximizing the
wealth of its shareholders and avoid adding superfluous
employees to the payroll in the first place, so that it won’t be
the object of these kinds of actions.

Or maybe not.

Finally, the dollars that are often associated with acquisitions
are so high, one must wonder about the morality of these
payments. This is especially the case for intermediaries in
these exchanges—the lawyers and investment bankers—and
for managers—who see their incomes rise as their firms get
larger. It turns out that intermediaries and managers do make
quite a bit of money in acquisitions. In the United States, for
example, total investment banking fees in acquisitions range
between 2.3 and 2.4% of a target’s purchase price. However,
the vast majority of the value that is created by these
strategies is appropriated by shareholders. And who are
these shareholders? More and more of them are institutions
—like mutual funds and pension funds (see Chapter 10            ).
But these institutions invest the funds they control for smaller
investors around the world. So, in this sense, creating value
for investors through acquisition strategies is a highly
democratic approach to capitalism.

Or maybe it isn’t.

The ethical issues surrounding mergers and acquisitions are
complex and subtle. Sweeping conclusions that all such
strategies are inherently immoral seem just as problematic as
sweeping conclusions that they are all justifiable on ethical
grounds. The phrase “Greed is good” makes many
uncomfortable, but it gives us an opportunity to think much
deeper about the ethics of mergers and acquisitions. 2
What Are Mergers and
Acquisitions?
Objective 12.1 Describe different types of mergers and acquisitions.

The terms mergers and acquisitions are often used interchangeably,
even though they are not synonyms. A firm engages in an
acquisition when it purchases a second firm. The form of this
purchase can vary. For example, an acquiring firm can use cash it
has generated from its ongoing businesses to purchase a target firm;
it can go into debt to purchase a target firm; it can use its own equity
to purchase a target firm; or it can use a mix of these mechanisms to
purchase a target firm. Also, an acquiring firm can purchase all a
target firm’s assets; it can purchase a majority of those assets
(greater than 51 percent); or it can purchase a controlling share
of those assets (i.e., enough assets so that the acquiring firm is able
to make all the management and strategic decisions in the target
firm).


Acquisitions also vary on several other dimensions. For example,
friendly acquisitions occur when the management of the target
firm wants the firm to be acquired. Unfriendly acquisitions occur
when the management of the target firm does not want the firm to be
acquired. Some unfriendly acquisitions are also known as hostile
takeovers . Some acquisitions are accomplished through direct
negotiations between an acquiring firm’s managers and the
managers of a target firm. This is especially common when a target
firm is privately held (i.e., when it has not sold shares on the
public stock market) or closely held (i.e., when it has not sold
very many shares on the public stock market). Other acquisitions are
accomplished by the acquiring firm publicly announcing that it is
willing to purchase the outstanding shares of a potential target for a
particular price. This price is normally greater than the current
market price of the target firm’s shares. The difference between the
current market price of a target firm’s shares and the price a
potential acquirer offers to pay for those shares is known as an
acquisition premium . This approach to purchasing a firm is
called a tender offer . Tender offers can be made either with or
without the support of the management of the target firm. Obviously,
tender offers with the support of the target firm’s management are
typically friendly in character; those made without the support of the
target firm’s management are typically unfriendly.


It is usually the case that larger firms—in terms of sales or assets—
acquire smaller firms. For example, Google has been larger than all
its intended targets, including Motorola Mobile. In contrast, when the
assets of two similar-sized firms are combined, this transaction is
called a merger . Mergers can be accomplished in many of the
same ways as acquisitions, that is, using cash or stock to purchase a
percentage of another firm’s assets. Typically, however, mergers will
not be unfriendly. In a merger, one firm purchases some percentage
of a second firm’s assets while the second firm simultaneously
purchases some percentage of the first firm’s assets. For example,
DaimlerChrysler was created as a merger between Daimler-Benz
(the maker of Mercedes-Benz) and Chrysler. Daimler-Benz invested
some of its capital in Chrysler, and Chrysler invested some of its
capital in Daimler-Benz. More recently, these merged companies
split into two firms again. Then, after the financial crisis of 2007,
Chrysler merged with Fiat.


Although mergers typically begin as a transaction between equals—
that is, between firms of equal size and profitability—they often
evolve after a merger such that one firm becomes more dominant in
the management of the merged firm than the other. For example,
most observers believe that Daimler (the German part of
DaimlerChrysler) became more dominant in the management of the
combined firm than Chrysler (the American part). And now, most
believe that Fiat is more dominant. 3 Put differently, although mergers
usually start out as something different from acquisitions, they
usually end up looking more like acquisitions than mergers.
The Value of Mergers and
Acquisitions
Objective 12.2 Describe how mergers and acquisitions can create
               economic value:
                  a. When bidding and target firms share no
                      economies of scope
                  b. When bidding and target firms share
                      economies of scope
                   c. Why firms might engage in these strategies
                      even when, on average, they do not create
                      profits for bidding firms.

That merger and acquisition strategies are an important strategic
option open to firms pursuing diversification and vertical integration
strategies can hardly be disputed. The number of firms that have
used merger and acquisition strategies to become diversified over
the past few years is staggering. In 2015, there were over 45,000
acquisitions worldwide, and in 2016, the total value of all acquisitions
topped $4.5 trillion. 4


That mergers and acquisitions are common is clear. What is less
clear is that they actually generate value for firms implementing
these strategies. Two cases will be examined here: mergers and
acquisitions between firms where no economies of scope exist and
mergers and acquisitions between firms where economies of scope
do exist.
Mergers and Acquisitions: No
Economies of Scope
Imagine the following scenario: one firm (the target) is the object of
an acquisition effort, and 10 firms (the bidders) are interested in
making this acquisition. Suppose the current market value of the
target firm is $10,000—that is, the price of each of this firm’s shares
times the number of shares outstanding equals $10,000. Also,
suppose the current market value of each of the bidding firms is
$15,000. 5 Finally, suppose there are no economies of scope
between these bidding firms and the target. This means that the
value of any one of these bidding firms when combined with the
target firm exactly equals the sum of the value of these firms as
separate entities. In this example, because the current market value
of the target is $10,000 and the current market value of the bidding
firms is $15,000, the value of this target when combined with any of
these bidders would be $25,000 ($10,000 + $15,000). Given this
information, at what price will this target be acquired, and what are
the economic performance implications for bidding and target firms
at this price?


In this and all acquisition situations, bidding firms will be willing to
pay a price for a target up to the value that the target firm adds to the
bidder once it is acquired. This price is simply the difference between
the value of the two firms combined (in this case, $25,000) and the
value of the bidding firm by itself (in this case, $15,000). Notice that
this price does not depend on the value of the target firm acting as
an independent business; rather, it depends on the value that the
target firm creates when it is combined with the bidding firm. Any
price for a target less than this value (i.e., less than $10,000) will be
a source of economic profit for a bidding firm; any price equal to this
value (i.e., equal to $10,000) will be a source of zero economic
profits; and any price greater than this value (i.e., greater than
$10,000) will be a source of economic losses for the bidding firm that
acquires the target.

It is not hard to see that the price of this acquisition will quickly rise to
$10,000 and that at this price the bidding firm that acquires the target
will earn zero economic profits. The price of this acquisition will
quickly rise to $10,000 because any bid less than $10,000 will
generate economic profits for a successful bidder. These potential
profits, in turn, will generate entry into the bidding war for a target.
Because entry into the acquisition contest is very likely, the price of
the acquisition will quickly rise to its value, and economic profits will
not be created.

Moreover, at this $10,000 price the target firm’s equity holders will
also gain zero economic profits. Indeed, for them, all that has
occurred is that the market value of the target firm has been
capitalized in the form of a cash payment from the bidder to the
target. The target was worth $10,000, and that is exactly what these
equity holders will receive.
Mergers and Acquisitions: When
Economies of Scope Exist
The conclusion that the acquisition of targets when no economies of
scope exist will generate only zero economic profits for both the
bidding and the target firms is not surprising. It is very consistent with
the discussion of the economic consequences of diversification in
Chapter 9     . There, it was argued that there is no economic
justification for a corporate diversification strategy that does not build
on some type of economy of scope across the businesses within
which a firm operates. So, if there is any hope that mergers and
acquisitions will be a source of superior performance for bidding
firms, it must be because of some sort of economy of scope between
bidding and target firms.
Types of Economies of Scope in
Acquisitions
Of course, economies of scope between bidding and target firms can
vary dramatically. Three particularly important lists of these potential
linkages are discussed here. 6
The Federal Trade Commission Categories
Because mergers and acquisitions can have the effect of increasing
(or decreasing) the level of concentration in an industry, the Federal
Trade Commission (FTC) is charged with the responsibility of
evaluating the competitive implications of proposed mergers or
acquisitions. In principle, the FTC will disallow any acquisition
involving firms with headquarters in the United States that could
have the potential for generating monopoly (or oligopoly) profits in an
industry. To help in this regulatory effort, the FTC has developed a
typology of mergers and acquisitions (see Table 12.1 ). Each
category in this typology can be thought of as a different way in
which a bidding firm and a target firm can be related in a merger or
acquisition.


Table 12.1 Federal Trade Commission Categories of Mergers
and Acquisitions
Per the FTC, a firm engages in a vertical merger       when it
vertically integrates, either forward or backward, through its
acquisition efforts. Vertical mergers could include a firm purchasing
critical suppliers of raw materials (backward vertical integration) or
acquiring customers and distribution networks (forward
vertical integration). Disney’s acquisition of Capital Cities/ABC can
be understood as an attempt by Disney to forward vertically integrate
into the entertainment distribution industry, and its acquisition of
ESPN can be seen as backward vertical integration into the
entertainment production business. 7


A firm engages in a horizontal merger       when it acquires a former
competitor; Adidas’s acquisition of Reebok is an example of a
horizontal merger, as the number 2 and number 3 sneaker
manufacturers in the world combined their efforts. Obviously, the
FTC is particularly concerned with the competitive implications of
horizontal mergers because these strategies can have the most
direct and obvious anti-competitive implications in an industry. For
example, the FTC raised antitrust concerns in the $10 billion merger
between Oracle and PeopleSoft because these firms, collectively,
dominated the enterprise software market. Similar concerns were
raised in the $16.4 billion merger between ChevronTexaco and
Unocal and the merger between Mobil and Exxon.

The third type of merger identified by the FTC is a product
extension merger      . In a product extension merger, firms acquire
complementary products through their merger and acquisition
activities. Examples include Google’s acquisition of Motorola Mobile.
The fourth type of merger identified by the FTC is a market
extension merger . Here the primary objective is to gain access to
new geographic markets. Examples include SABMiller’s acquisition
of Bavaria Brewery Company in Columbia, South America.


The final type of merger or acquisition identified by the FTC is a ‐
conglomerate merger       . For the FTC, conglomerate mergers are a
residual category. If there are no vertical, horizontal, product
extension, or market extension links between firms, the FTC defines
the merger or acquisition activity between firms as a conglomerate
merger.
Other Types of Strategic Relatedness
Although the FTC categories of mergers and acquisitions provide
some information about possible motives underlying these corporate
strategies, they do not capture the full complexity of the links that
might exist between bidding and target firms. Several authors have
attempted to develop more complete lists of possible sources of
economies of scope between bidding and target firms. One of these
lists, developed by Professor Michael Lubatkin, is summarized in
Table 12.2    . This list includes technical economies       (in
marketing, production, and similar forms of relatedness), pecuniary
economies       (market power), and diversification economies
(in portfolio management and risk reduction) as possible bases of
strategic relatedness between bidding and target firms.

Table 12.2 Lubatkin’s List of Potential Sources of Economies of
Scope Between Bidding and Target Firms
A second important list of possible sources of economies of scope
between bidding and target firms was developed by Michael Jensen
and Richard Ruback after a comprehensive review of empirical
research on the economic returns to mergers and acquisitions. This
list is summarized in Table 12.3 and includes the following factors
as possible sources of economic gains in mergers and acquisitions:
potential reductions in production or distribution costs (from
economies of scale, vertical integration, reduction in agency costs,
and so forth); the realization of financial opportunities (such as
gaining access to underutilized tax shields, avoiding bankruptcy
costs); the creation of market power; and the ability to eliminate
inefficient management in the target firm.


Table 12.3 Jensen and Ruback’s List of Reasons Why Bidding
Firms Might Want to Engage in Merger and Acquisition
Strategies
To be economically valuable, links between bidding and target firms
must meet the same criteria as diversification strategies (see
Chapter 9       ). First, these links must build on real economies of
scope between bidding and target firms. These economies of scope
can reflect either cost savings or revenue enhancements that are
created by combining firms. Second, not only must this economy of
scope exist, but it must be less costly for the merged firm to realize
than for outside equity holders to realize on their own. As is the case
with corporate diversification strategies, by investing in a diversified
portfolio of stocks, outside equity investors can gain many of the
economies associated with a merger or acquisition on their own.
Moreover, investors can realize some of these economies of scope
at almost zero cost. In this situation, it makes little sense for
investors to “hire” managers in firms to realize these economies of
scope for them through a merger or acquisition. Rather, firms should
pursue merger and acquisition strategies only to obtain valuable
economies of scope that outside investors find too costly to create
on their own.
Economic Profits in Related Acquisitions
If bidding and target firms are linked by potential economies of
scope, then the economic value of these two firms combined is
greater than their economic value as separate entities. To see how
this changes returns to merger and acquisition strategies, consider
the following scenario: as before, there is one target firm and 10
bidding firms. The market value of the target firm as a stand-alone
entity is $10,000, and the market value of the bidding firms as stand-
alone entities is $15,000. However, unlike the earlier scenario in this
chapter, the bidding and target firms are linked by economies of
scope. Any of the links between firms identified in Table 12.1       ,
Table 12.2     , or Table 12.3    could be the source of these
economies of scope. They imply that when any of the bidding firms
and the target are combined, the market value of this combined
entity will be $32,000—note that $32,000 is greater than the sum of
$15,000 and $10,000. At what price will this target firm be acquired,
and what are the economic profit implications for bidding and target
firms at this price?

As before, bidding firms will be willing to pay a price for a target up to
the value that a target firm adds once it is acquired. Thus, the
maximum price bidding firms are willing to pay is still the difference
between the value of the combined entity (here, $32,000) and the
value of a bidding firm on its own (here, $15,000), or $17,000.


As was the case for acquisition without economies of scope, it is not
hard to see that the price for actually acquiring the target firm in this
scenario will rapidly rise to $17,000 because any bid less than
$17,000 has the potential for generating profits for a bidding firm.
Suppose that one bidding firm offers $13,000 for the target. For this
$13,000, the bidding firm gains access to a target that will generate
$17,000 of value once it is acquired. Thus, to this bidding firm, the
target is worth $17,000, and a bid of $13,000 will generate $4,000
economic profit. Of course, these potential profits will motivate entry
into the competitive bidding process. Entry will continue until the
price of this target equals $17,000. Any price greater than $17,000
would mean that a bidding firm is actually losing money on its
acquisition. 8


At this $17,000 price, the successful bidding firm earns zero
economic profits. After all, this firm has acquired an asset that will
generate $17,000 of value and has paid $17,000 to do so. However,
the owners of the target firm will earn an economic profit worth
$7,000. As a stand-alone firm, the target is worth $10,000; when
combined with a bidding firm, it is worth $17,000. The difference
between the value of the target as a stand-alone entity and its value
in combination with a bidding firm is the value of the economic profit
that can be appropriated by the owners of the target firm.


Thus, the existence of economies of scope between bidding and
target firms is not a sufficient condition for the equity holders of
bidding firms to earn economic profits from their acquisition
strategies. If the economic potential of acquiring a particular target
firm is widely known and if several potential bidding firms can all
obtain this value by acquiring a target, the equity holders of bidding
firms will, at best, earn only zero economic profits from implementing
an acquisition strategy. In this setting, a merger or acquisition will
create economic value, but this value will be distributed in the form of
economic profits to the equity holders of acquired target firms.
Returns to Mergers and
Acquisitions: Research Results
The empirical implications of this discussion of returns to bidding and
target firms in mergers and acquisitions have been examined in a
variety of academic literatures. One study reviewed more than 40
empirical merger and acquisition studies in the finance literature.
This study concluded that acquisitions, on average, increased the
market value of target firms by about 25 percent and left the market
value of bidding firms unchanged. The authors of this report
concluded that, “corporate takeovers generate positive
gains, . . . target firm equity holders benefit, and, . . . bidding firm
equity holders do not lose.” 9 The way these studies evaluate the
return to acquisition strategies is discussed in the Strategy in
Depth     feature.
S T R AT E G Y I N D E P T H




Evaluating the Performance Effects of Acquisitions


By far, the most popular way to evaluate the performance
effects of acquisitions for bidding firms is called event study
analysis       . Rooted in the field of financial economics, event
study analysis compares the actual performance of a stock
after an acquisition has been announced with the expected
performance of that stock if no acquisition had been
announced. Any performance greater (or less) than what was
expected in a short period of time around when an acquisition
is announced is attributed to that acquisition. This cumulative
abnormal return (CAR)             can be positive or negative
depending on whether the stock in question performs better
or worse than expected without an acquisition.

The CAR created by an acquisition is calculated in several
stages. First, the expected performance of a stock, without an
acquisition, is estimated with the following regression
equation:

                 E(R          ) = a       + bj Rm,   t   + ej,   t
                       j, t           j




where E(Rj, t ) is the expected return of stock j during time t;
aj   is a constant (approximately equal to the rate of return on
risk-free equities); bj is an empirical estimate of the financial
parameter β (equal to the covariance between the returns of
a particular firm’s stock and the average return of all stocks in
the market, over time); Rm,t is the actual average rate of
return of all stocks in the market over time; and ej,t is an error
term. The form of this equation is derived from the capital
asset pricing model in finance. In this model, E(Rj,t ) is
simply the expected performance of a stock, given the
historical relationship between that stock and the overall
performance of the stock market.

To calculate the unexpected performance of a stock, this
expected level of performance is simply subtracted from the
actual level of performance for a stock. This is done in the
following equation:

               XRj,t =     Rj,t   − (a       + bj Rm,t )
                                         j




where Rj,t is the actual performance of stock j during time t,
and XRj,t is the unexpected performance of stock j during
time t.

In calculating the CAR for a particular acquisition, it is
necessary to sum the unexpected returns (XRj,t ) for a stock
across the t periods when the stock market is responding to
news about this acquisition. Most analyses of acquisitions
examine the market’s reaction one day before an acquisition
is formally announced to three days after it is announced. The
sum of these unexpected returns over this period is the CAR
attributable to this acquisition.

This methodology has been applied to literally thousands of
acquisition episodes. For example, when Manulife Financial
purchased John Hancock Financial, Manulife’s CAR was -10
percent, whereas John Hancock’s CAR was 6 percent; when
Anthem acquired Wellpoint, Anthem’s CAR was 6 percent,
and Wellpoint’s was 7 percent; when Bank of America
acquired FleetBoston Financial, Bank of America’s CAR was
-10 percent, and FleetBoston’s was 24 percent; and when
UnitedHealth acquired Mid Atlantic Medical, UnitedHealth’s
CAR was -9 percent, and Mid Atlantic Medical’s was 11
percent.
   Although the event study method has been used widely, it
   does have some important limitations. First, it is based
   entirely on the capital asset pricing model, and there is some
   reason to believe that this model is not a particularly good
   predictor of a firm’s expected stock price. Second, it assumes
   that a firm’s equity holders can anticipate all the benefits
   associated with making an acquisition at the time that
   acquisition is made. Some scholars have argued that value
   creation continues long after an acquisition is announced as
   parties in this exchange discover value-creating opportunities
   that could not have been anticipated. 10


Strategy researchers have also attempted to examine in more detail
the sources of value creation in mergers and acquisitions and the
question of whether these sources of value creation affect whether
bidders or targets appropriate this value. For example, two well-
known studies examined the impact of the type and degree of
strategic relatedness (defined using the FTC typology summarized in
Table 12.1    ) between bidding and target firms on the economic
consequences of mergers and acquisitions. 11 These studies found
that the more economies of scope existed between bidding and
target firms, the more economic value mergers and acquisitions
create. However, like the finance studies, this work found that this
economic value was appropriated by the owners of the target firm,
regardless of the type or degree of economy of scope between the
bidding and target firms. Bidding firms—even when they attempt to
acquire targets with whom they enjoy valuable economies of scopes
—earn, on average, zero economic profits from their merger and
acquisition strategies.
Why Are There So Many Mergers
and Acquisitions?
Given the overwhelming empirical evidence that most of the
economic value created in mergers and acquisitions is appropriated
by the owners of the target firm most of the time, an important
question becomes: “Why do managers of bidding firms continue to
engage in merger and acquisition strategies?” Some possible
explanations are summarized in Table 12.4      and discussed in this
section.


Table 12.4 Possible Motivations to Engage in Mergers and
Acquisitions Even Though They Usually Do Not Generate
Profits for Bidding Firms
To Ensure Survival
Even if mergers and acquisitions, on average, generate only zero
economic profits for bidding firms, it may be necessary for bidding
firms to engage in these activities to ensure their survival. In
particular, if all of a bidding firm’s competitors have been able to
improve their efficiency and effectiveness through a particular type of
acquisition, then failing to make such an acquisition may put a firm at
a competitive disadvantage. Here the purpose of a merger or
acquisition is not to gain competitive advantages, but rather to gain
competitive parity.


Many recent mergers among banks in the United States seem to
have competitive parity and normal economic profits as an objective.
Most bank managers recognize that changing bank regulations,
increased competition from nonbanking financial institutions, and soft
demand are likely to lead to a consolidation of the U.S. banking
industry. To survive in this consolidated industry, many U.S. banks
must merge. As the number of banks engaging in mergers and
acquisitions goes up, the ability to earn superior profits from those
strategies goes down. These lower returns from acquisitions have
already reduced the economic value of some of the most aggressive
acquiring banks. Despite these lower returns, acquisitions are likely
to continue for the foreseeable future, as banks seek survival
opportunities in a consolidated industry. 12
Free Cash Flow
Another reason why firms may continue to invest in merger and
acquisition strategies is that these strategies, on average, can be
expected to generate at least competitive parity for bidding firms.
This zero economic profit may be a more attractive investment for
some firms than alternative strategic investments. This is particularly
the case for firms that generate free cash flow. 13


Free cash flow      is simply the amount of cash a firm has to invest
after all positive net present-value investments in its ongoing
businesses have been funded. Free cash flow is created when a
firm’s ongoing business operations are very profitable but offer few
opportunities for additional investment. One firm that seems to have
generated a great deal of free cash flow over the past several years
is Philip Morris. Philip Morris’s retail tobacco operations are
extremely profitable. However, regulatory constraints, health
concerns, and slowing growth in demand limit investment
opportunities in the tobacco industry. Thus, the amount of cash
generated by Philip Morris’s ongoing tobacco business has probably
been larger than the sum of its positive net present-value
investments in that business. This difference is free cash flow for
Philip Morris. 14


A firm that generates a great deal of free cash flow must decide what
to do with this money. One obvious alternative would be to give it to
stockholders in the form of dividends or stock buybacks. However, in
some situations (e.g., when stockholders face high marginal tax
rates), stockholders may prefer a firm to retain this cash flow and
invest it for them. When this is the case, how should a firm invest its
free cash flow?

Because (by definition) no positive net present-value investment
opportunities in a firm’s ongoing business operations are available,
firms have only two investment options: to invest their free cash flow
in strategies that generate competitive parity or in strategies that
generate competitive disadvantages. In this context, merger and
acquisition strategies are a viable option because bidding firms, on
average, can expect to generate at least competitive parity. Put
differently, although mergers and acquisitions may not be a source of
superior profits, there are worse things you could do with your free
cash flow.
Agency Problems
Another reason why firms might continue to engage in mergers and
acquisitions, despite earning only competitive parity from doing so, is
that mergers and acquisitions benefit managers directly, independent
of any value they may or may not create for a bidding firm’s
stockholders. As suggested in Chapter 10        , these conflicts of
interest are a manifestation of agency problems between a firm’s
managers and its stockholders.


Merger and acquisition strategies can benefit managers—even if
they do not directly benefit a bidding firm’s equity holders—in at least
two ways. First, managers can use mergers and acquisitions to help
diversify their human capital investments in their firm. As discussed
in Chapter 9     , managers have difficulty diversifying their firm-
specific human capital investments when a firm operates in a narrow
range of businesses. By acquiring firms with cash flows that are not
perfectly correlated with the cash flows of a firm’s current
businesses, managers can reduce the probability of bankruptcy for
their firm and thus partially diversify their human capital investments
in their firm.


Second, managers can use mergers and acquisitions to quickly
increase firm size, measured in either sales or assets. If
management compensation is closely linked to firm size, managers
who increase firm size can increase their compensation. Of all the
ways to increase the size of a firm quickly, growth through mergers
and acquisitions is perhaps the easiest. Even if there are no
economies of scope between a bidding and a target firm, an
acquisition ensures that the bidding firm will grow by the size of the
target (measured in either sales or assets). If there are economies of
scope between a bidding and a target firm, the size of the bidding
firm can grow at an even faster rate, as can the value of
management’s compensation, even though, on average, acquisitions
do not generate wealth for the owners of the bidding firm.
Managerial Hubris
Another reason why managers may choose to continue to invest in
mergers and acquisitions, even though, on average, they gain no
profits from doing so, is the existence of what has been called
managerial hubris      . 15 This is the unrealistic belief held by
managers in bidding firms that they can manage the assets of a
target firm more efficiently than the target firm’s current
management. This notion can lead bidding firms to engage in
acquisition strategies even though there may not be positive
economic profits from doing so.


The existence of managerial hubris suggests that the economic
value of bidding firms will fall once they announce a merger or
acquisition strategy. Although managers in bidding firms might truly
believe that they can manage a target firm’s assets more efficiently
than the target firm’s managers, investors in the capital markets are
much less likely to be caught up in this hubris. In this context, a
commitment to a merger or acquisition strategy is a strong signal
that a bidding firm’s management has deluded itself about its abilities
to manage a target firm’s assets. Such delusions will certainly
adversely affect the economic value of the bidding firm.


Of course, empirical work on mergers and acquisitions discussed
earlier in this chapter has concluded that although bidding firms do
not obtain profits from their merger and acquisition strategies, they
also do not, on average, reduce their economic value from
implementing these strategies. This is inconsistent with the “hubris
hypothesis.” However, the fact that, on average, bidding firms do not
lose economic value does not mean that some bidding firms do not
lose economic value. Thus, although it is unlikely that all merger and
acquisition strategies are motivated by managerial hubris, it is likely
that at least some of them are. 16


The Potential for Economic Profits
A final reason why managers might continue to pursue merger and
acquisition strategies is the potential that these strategies offer for
generating profits for at least some bidding firms. The empirical
research on returns to bidding firms in mergers and acquisitions is
very strong. On average, bidding firms do not gain profits from their
merger and acquisition strategies. However, the fact that bidding
firms, on average, do not earn profits on these strategies does not
mean that all bidding firms will always fail to earn profits. In some
situations, bidding firms may be able to gain competitive advantages
from merger and acquisition activities. These situations are
discussed in the following section.
Mergers and Acquisitions and
Sustained Competitive Advantage
Objective 12.3 Describe three ways that bidding firms might be able
               to generate economic profits from implementing
               mergers or acquisitions.

We have already seen that the economies of scope that motivate
mergers and acquisitions between strategically related bidding and
target firms can be valuable. However, the ability of these economies
to generate profits and competitive advantages for bidding firms
depends not only on their economic value, but also on the
competitiveness of the market for corporate control through which
these valuable economies are realized. The market for corporate
control is the market that is created when multiple firms actively
seek to acquire one or several firms. Only when the market for
corporate control is imperfectly competitive might it be possible for
bidding firms to earn profits from implementing a merger or
acquisition strategy. To see how the competitiveness of the market
for corporate control can affect returns to merger and acquisition
strategies, we will consider three scenarios involving bidding and
target firms and examine their implications for the managers of these
firms. 17
Valuable, Rare, and Private
Economies of Scope
An imperfectly competitive market for corporate control can exist
when a target is worth more to one bidder than it is to any other
bidders and when no other firms—including bidders and targets—are
aware of this additional value. In this setting, the price of a target will
rise to reflect public expectations about the value of the target. Once
the target is acquired, however, the performance of the special
bidder that acquires the target will be greater than generally
expected, and this level of performance will generate profits for the
equity holders of the bidding firm.


Consider a simple case. Suppose the market value of bidder Firm A
combined with target firms is $12,000, whereas the market value of
all other bidders combined with targets is $10,000. No other firms
(bidders or targets) are aware of Firm A’s unique relationship with
these targets, but they are aware of the value of all other bidders
combined with targets (i.e., $10,000). Suppose also that the market
value of all bidding firms, as stand-alone entities, is $7,000. In this
setting, Firm A will be willing to pay up to $5,000 to acquire a target
($12,000 - $7,000), and all other bidders will only be willing to pay up
to $3,000 to acquire a target ($10,000 - $7,000).


Because publicly available information suggests that acquiring a
target is worth $3,000 more than the target’s stand-alone price, the
price of targets will rapidly rise to this level, ensuring that, if bidding
firms, apart from Firm A, acquire a target, they will obtain no profits.
If there is only one target in this market for corporate control, then
Firm A will be able to bid slightly more than $3,000 (perhaps $3,001)
for this target. No other firms will bid higher than Firm A because,
from their point of view, the acquisition is simply not worth more than
$3,000. At this $3001 price, Firm A will earn a profit of $1,999—Firm
A had to spend only $3,001 for a firm that brings $5,000 in value
above its stand-alone market price. Alternatively, if there are multiple
targets, then several bidding firms, including Firm A, will pay $3,000
for their targets. At this price, these bidding firms will all earn zero
economic profits, except for Firm A, which will earn an economic
profit equal to $2,000. That is, only Firm A will gain a competitive
advantage from acquiring a target in this market.


For Firm A to obtain this profit, the value of Firm A’s economy of
scope with target firms must be greater than the value of any other
bidding firms with that target. This special value will generally reflect
unusual resources and capabilities possessed by Firm A—resources
and capabilities that are more valuable in combination with target
firms than are the resources and capabilities that other bidding firms
possess. Put differently, to be a source of economic profits and
competitive advantage, Firm A’s link with targets must be based on
resources and capabilities that are rare among those firms
competing in this market for corporate control.


However, not only must Firm A possess valuable and rare links with
bidding firms to gain economic profits and competitive advantages
from its acquisition strategies, but information about these special
economies of scope must not be known by other firms. If other
bidding firms know about the additional value associated with
acquiring a target, they are likely to try to duplicate this value for
themselves. Typically, they would accomplish this by imitating the
type of relatedness that exists between Firm A and its targets by
developing the resources and capabilities that enabled Firm A to
have its valuable economies of scope with targets. Once other
bidders developed the resources and capabilities necessary to
obtain this more valuable economy of scope, they would be able to
enter bidding, thereby increasing the likelihood that the equity
holders of successful bidding firms would earn no economic profits.

Target firms must also be unaware of Firm A’s special resources and
capabilities if Firm A is to obtain competitive advantages from an
acquisition. If target firms were aware of this extra value available to
Firm A, along with the sources of this value, they could inform other
bidding firms. These bidding firms could then adjust their bids to
reflect this higher value, and competitive bidding would reduce
profits to bidders. Target firms are likely to inform bidding firms in this
way because increasing the number of bidders with more valuable
economies of scope increases the likelihood that target firms will
extract all the economic value created in a merger or acquisition. 18
Valuable, Rare, and Costly-to-
Imitate Economies of Scope
The existence of firms that have valuable, rare, and private
economies of scope with targets is not the only way that the market
for corporate control can be imperfectly competitive. If other bidders
cannot imitate one bidder’s valuable and rare economies with
targets, then competition in this market for corporate control will be
imperfect, and the equity holders of this special bidding firm will earn
economic profits. In this case, the existence of valuable and rare
economies does not need to be private because other bidding firms
cannot imitate these economies, and therefore bids that substantially
reduce the profits for the equity holders of the special bidding firm
are not forthcoming.

Typically, bidding firms will be unable to imitate one bidder’s valuable
and rare economies of scope with targets when the strategic
relatedness between the special bidder and the targets stems from
some rare and costly-to-imitate resources or capabilities controlled
by the special bidding firm. Any of the costly-to-imitate resources and
capabilities discussed in Chapter 3     could create costly-to-imitate
economies of scope between a firm and a target. If, in addition,
these economies are valuable and rare, they can be a source of
profits to the equity holders of the special bidding firm. This can
happen even if all firms in this market for corporate control are aware
of the more valuable economies of scope available to this firm and
its sources. Although information about this special economy of
scope is publicly available, equity holders of special bidding firms will
earn a profit when acquisition occurs. The equity holders of target
firms will not obtain all this profit because competitive bidding
dynamics cannot unfold when the sources of a more valuable
economy of scope are costly to imitate.


Of course, it may be possible for a valuable, rare, and costly-to-
imitate economy of scope between a bidding and a target firm to also
be private. Indeed, it is often the case that those attributes of a firm
that are costly to imitate are also difficult to describe and thus can be
held as proprietary information. In that case, the analysis of profits
associated with valuable, rare, and private economies of scope
presented earlier applies.
Unexpected Valuable Economies
of Scope Between Bidding and
Target Firms
Thus far, this discussion has adopted, for convenience, the strong
assumption that the present value of the strategic relatedness
between bidders and targets is known with certainty by individual
bidders. This is, in principle, possible, but certainly not likely. Most
modern acquisitions and mergers are massively complex, involving
numerous unknown and complicated relationships between firms. In
these settings, unexpected events after an acquisition has been
completed may make an acquisition or merger more valuable than
bidders and targets anticipated it would be. The price that bidding
firms will pay to acquire a target will equal the expected value of the
target only when the target is combined with the bidder. The
difference between the unexpected value of an acquisition actually
obtained by a bidder and the price the bidder paid for the acquisition
is a profit for the equity holders of the bidding firm.

Of course, by definition, bidding firms cannot expect to obtain
unexpected value from an acquisition. Unexpected value, in this
context, is a surprise, a manifestation of a bidding firm’s good luck,
not its skill in acquiring targets. For example, when the British
advertising firm WPP acquired J. Walter Thompson for $550 million,
it discovered some property owned by J. Walter Thomson in Tokyo.
No one knew of this property when the firm was acquired. It turned
out to be worth more than $100 million after taxes, a financial
windfall that helped offset the high cost of this acquisition. When
asked, Martin Sorrel, president of WPP and the architect of this
acquisition, admitted that this $100 million windfall was simply good
luck. 19
Implications for Bidding Firm
Managers
The existence of valuable, rare, and private economies of scope
between bidding and target firms and of valuable, rare, and costly-to-
imitate economies of scope between bidding and target firms
suggests that although, on average, most bidding firms do not
generate competitive advantages from their acquisition strategies, in
some special circumstances it may be possible for them to do so.
Thus, the task facing managers in firms contemplating merger and
acquisition strategies is to choose strategies that have the greatest
likelihood of being able to generate profits for their equity holders.
Several important managerial prescriptions can be derived from this
discussion. These “rules” for bidding firm managers are summarized
in Table 12.5    .


Table 12.5 Rules for Bidding Firm Managers
Search for Valuable and Rare
Economies of Scope
One of the main reasons why bidding firms do not obtain competitive
advantages from acquiring strategically related target firms is that
several other bidding firms value the target firm in the same way.
When multiple bidders all value a target in the same way,
competitive bidding is likely. Competitive bidding, in turn, drives out
the potential for superior performance. To avoid this problem, bidding
firms should seek to acquire targets with which they enjoy valuable
and rare linkages.

Operationally, the search for rare economies of scope suggests that
managers in bidding firms need to consider not only the value of a
target firm when combined with their own company, but also the
value of a target firm when combined with other potential bidders.
This is important because it is the difference between the value of a
particular bidding firm’s relationship with a target and the value of
other bidding firms’ relationships with that target that defines the size
of the potential economic profits from an acquisition.


In practice, the search for valuable and rare economies of scope is
likely to become a search for valuable and rare resources already
controlled by a firm that are synergistically related to a target. For
example, if a bidding firm has a unique reputation in its product
market and if the target firm’s products could benefit by association
with that reputation, then the target firm may be more valuable to this
particular bidder than to other bidders (firms that do not possess this
special reputation). Also, if a particular bidder possesses the largest
market share in its industry, the best distribution system, or restricted
access to certain key raw materials and if the target firm would
benefit from being associated with these valuable and rare
resources, then the acquisition of this target may be a source of
economic profits.


The search for valuable and rare economies of scope as a basis of
mergers and acquisitions tends to rule out certain interfirm linkages
as sources of economic profits. For example, most acquisitions can
lead to a reduction in overhead costs because much of the corporate
overhead associated with the target firm can be eliminated after
acquisition. However, the ability to eliminate these overhead costs is
not unique to any one bidder, and thus the value created by these
reduced costs will usually be captured by the equity holders of the
target firm.
Keep Information Away from Other
Bidders
One of the keys to earning superior performance in an acquisition
strategy is to avoid multiple bidders for a single target. One way to
accomplish this is to keep information about the bidding process,
and about the sources of economies of scope between a bidder and
target that underlie this bidding process, as private as possible. For
other firms to become involved in bidding for a target, they must be
aware of the value of the economies of scope between themselves
and that target. If only one bidding firm knows this information and if
this bidding firm can close the deal before the full value of the target
is known, then it may gain a competitive advantage from completing
this acquisition.

Of course, in many circumstances, keeping all this information
private is difficult. Often, it is illegal. For example, when seeking to
acquire a publicly traded firm, potential bidders must meet disclosure
requirements that effectively reduce the amount of private
information a bidder can retain. In these circumstances, unless a
bidding firm has some valuable, rare, and costly-to-imitate economy
of scope with a target firm, the possibility of economic profits coming
from an acquisition is very low. It is not surprising that the research
conducted on mergers and acquisitions of firms traded on public
stock exchanges governed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) disclosure rules suggests that, most of the time,
bidding firms do not earn economic profits from implementing their
acquisition strategies.
However, not all potential targets are publicly traded. Privately held
firms may be acquired in an information environment that can create
opportunities for above-normal performance for bidding firms.
Moreover, even when acquiring a publicly traded firm, a bidder does
not have to release all the information it has about the potential value
of that target in combination with itself. Indeed, if some of this value
reflects a bidding firm’s taken-for-granted “invisible” assets, it may
not be possible to communicate this information. In this case, as
well, there may be opportunities for competitive advantages for
bidding firms.
Keep Information Away from Targets
Not only should bidding firms keep information about the value of
their economy of scope with a target away from other bidders, they
should also keep this information away from target firms. Suppose
that the value of a target firm to a bidding firm is $8,000, but the
bidding firm, in an attempt to earn economic profits, has bid only
$5,000 for the target. If the target knows that it is actually worth
$8,000, it is very likely to hold out for a higher bid. In fact, the target
may contact other potential bidding firms and tell them of the
opportunity created by the $5,000 bid. As the number of bidders
goes up, the possibility of superior economic performance for
bidders goes down. Therefore, to keep the possibility of these profits
alive, bidding firms must not fully reveal the value of their economies
of scope with a target firm. Again, in some circumstances, it is very
difficult, or even illegal, to attempt to limit the flow of information to
target firms. In these settings, superior economic performance for
bidding firms is very unlikely.


Limiting the amount of information that flows to the target firm may
have some other consequences as well. For example, it has been
shown that a complete sharing of information, insights, and
perspectives before an acquisition is completed increases the
probability that economies of scope will actually be realized once it is
completed. 20 By limiting the flow of information between itself and a
target, a bidding firm may actually be increasing the cost of
integrating the target into its ongoing business, thereby jeopardizing
at least some of the superior economic performance that limiting
information flow is designed to create. Bidding firms will need to
carefully balance the economic benefits of limiting the information
they share with the target firm against the costs that limiting
information flow may create.


Avoid Winning Bidding Wars
It should be reasonably clear that if a number of firms bid for the
same target, the probability that the firm that successfully acquires
the target will gain competitive advantages is very low. Indeed, to
ensure that competitive bidding occurs, target firms can actively
encourage other bidding firms to enter the bidding process. The
implications of these arguments are clear: bidding firms should
generally avoid winning a bidding war. To “win” a bidding war, a
bidding firm will often have to pay a price at least equal to the full
value of the target. Many times, given the emotions of an intense
bidding contest, the winning bid may actually be larger than the true
value of the target. Completing this type of acquisition will certainly
reduce the economic performance of the bidding firm.


The only time it might make sense to “win” a bidding war is when the
winning firm possesses a rare and private or a rare and costly-to-
imitate economy of scope with a target that is more valuable than the
strategic relatedness that exists between any other bidders and that
target. In this setting, the winning firm may be able to earn a profit if
it can fully realize the value of its relationship with the target.
Close the Deal Quickly
Another rule of thumb for obtaining superior performance from
implementing merger and acquisition strategies is to close the deal
quickly. All the economic processes that make it difficult for bidding
firms to earn economic profits from acquiring a strategically related
target take time to unfold. It takes time for other bidders to become
aware of the economic value associated with acquiring a target; it
takes time for the target to recruit other bidders; information leakage
becomes more of a problem over time; and so forth. A bidding firm
that begins and ends the bidding process quickly may forestall some
of these processes and thereby retain some superior performance
for itself.


The admonition to close the deal quickly should not be taken to
mean that bidding firms need to make their acquisition decisions
quickly. Indeed, the search for valuable and rare economies of scope
should be undertaken with great care. There should be little rush in
isolating and evaluating acquisition candidates. However, once a
target firm has been located and valued, bidding firms have a strong
incentive to reduce the period between the first bid and the
completion of the deal. The longer this period of negotiation, the less
likely it is that the bidding firm will earn economic profits from the
acquisition.
Complete Acquisitions in “Thinly Traded”
Markets
Finally, an acquisition strategy can be a source of economic profits to
bidding firms if these firms implement this corporate strategy in what
could be described as “thinly traded markets.” In general, a thinly
traded market is a market where there are only a small number
of buyers and sellers, where information about opportunities in this
market is not widely known, and where interests besides purely
maximizing the value of a firm can be important. In the context of
mergers and acquisitions, thinly traded markets are markets where
only a few (often only one) firms are implementing acquisition
strategies. These unique firms may be the only firms that understand
the full value of the acquisition opportunities in this market. Even
target firm managers may not fully understand the value of the
economic opportunities in these markets, and, if they do, they may
have other interests besides maximizing the value of their firm if it
becomes the object of a takeover.

In general, thinly traded merger and acquisition markets are highly
fragmented. Competition in these markets occurs at the local level,
as one small local firm competes with other small local firms for a
common group of geographically defined customers. Most of these
small firms are privately held. Many are sole proprietorships.
Examples of these thinly traded markets have included, at various
points in history, the printing industry, the fast-food industry, the
used-car industry, the dry-cleaning industry, and the barbershop/hair
salon industry.
As was suggested in Chapter 2        , the major opportunity in all
highly fragmented industries is consolidation. In the context of
mergers and acquisitions, consolidation can occur by one firm (or a
small number of firms) buying numerous independent firms to realize
economies of scope in these industries. Often, these economies of
scope reflect economies of scale in these industries—economies of
scale that were not realized in a highly fragmented setting. If the
number of firms implementing this consolidation strategy is small,
then the market for corporate control in these markets will probably
be less than perfectly competitive, and opportunities for profits from
implementing an acquisition strategy may be possible.


More generally, if a merger or acquisition contest is played out
through full-page ads in The Wall Street Journal, the ability of
bidding firms to gain competitive advantages from their acquisitions
is limited. Such highly public acquisitions are likely to lead to very
competitive markets for corporate control. Competitive markets for
corporate control, in turn, assure that the equity holders of the target
firm will appropriate any value that could be created by an
acquisition. However, if these contests occur in obscure, out-of-the-
way industries, it is more likely that bidding firms will be able to earn
profits from their acquisitions.
Service Corporation International: An
Example
Empirical research on mergers and acquisitions suggests that it is
not easy for bidding firms to earn economic profits from these
strategies. However, it may be possible for some bidding firms, some
of the time, to do so. One firm that was successful in gaining
competitive advantages from its merger and acquisition strategies is
Service Corporation International (SCI). Service Corporation
International is in the funeral home and cemetery business. It grew
from a collection of five funeral homes in 1967 to being the largest
owner of cemeteries and funeral homes in the United States today. It
did this through an aggressive and, what was until recently, a highly
profitable acquisitions program in this historically fragmented
industry.


The valuable and rare economy of scope that SCI brought to the
funeral home industry is the application of traditional business
practices in a highly fragmented and not often professionally
managed industry. Service Corporation International–owned funeral
homes operate with gross margins approaching 30 percent, nearly
three times the gross margins of independently owned funeral
homes. Among other things, higher margins reflected savings from
centralized purchasing services, centralized embalming and
professional services, and the sharing of underutilized resources
(including hearses) among funeral homes within geographic regions.
Service Corporation International’s scale advantages made a
particular funeral home more valuable to SCI than to one of SCI’s
smaller competitors and more valuable than if a particular funeral
home was left as a stand-alone business.


Moreover, the funeral homes that SCI targeted for acquisition were,
typically, family-owned and lacked heirs to continue the business.
Many of the owners or operators of these funeral homes were not
fully aware of the value of their operations to SCI (they are
morticians more than business managers), nor were they just
interested in maximizing the sale price of their funeral homes.
Rather, they were often looking to maintain continuity of service in a
community, secure employment for their loyal employees, and
ensure a comfortable (if not lavish) retirement for themselves. Being
acquired by SCI was likely to be the only alternative to closing the
funeral home once an owner or operator retired. Extracting less than
the full value of the funeral home when selling to SCI often seemed
preferable to other alternatives.


Because SCI’s acquisition of funeral homes exploited real and
valuable economies of scope, this strategy had the potential for
generating superior economic performance. Because SCI was, for
many years, the only firm implementing this strategy in the funeral
home industry, because the funeral homes that SCI acquired were
generally not publicly traded, and because the owners or operators
of these funeral homes often had interests besides simply
maximizing the price of their operations when they sold them, it
seems likely that SCI’s acquisition strategy generated superior
economic performance for many years.
However, information about SCI’s acquisition strategy has become
widely known. This has led other funeral homes to begin bidding to
acquire formerly independent funeral homes. Moreover, independent
funeral home owners have become more aware of their full value to
SCI. Although SCI’s economy of scope with independent funeral
homes is still valuable, it is no longer rare, and thus it is no longer a
source of economic profits to SCI. Put differently, the imperfectly
competitive market for corporate control that SCI exploited for almost
10 years has become more perfectly competitive. Future acquisitions
in this market by SCI are not likely to be a source of sustained
competitive advantage and economic profit. In response, SCI now
focuses on effectively managing its more than 1,800 funeral homes
in the United States. 21
Implications for Target Firm
Managers
Although bidding firm managers can do several things to attempt to
maximize the probability of earning economic profits from their
merger and acquisition strategies, target firm managers can attempt
to counter these efforts to ensure that the owners of target firms
appropriate whatever value is created by a merger or acquisition.
These “rules” for target firm managers are summarized in Table 12.6
  .


Table 12.6 Rules for Target Firm Managers
Seek Information from Bidders
One way a bidder can attempt to obtain superior performance from
implementing an acquisition strategy is to keep information about the
source and value of the strategic relatedness that exists between the
bidder and target private. If that relationship is actually worth
$12,000, but targets believe it is only worth $8,000, then a target
might be willing to settle for a bid of $8,000 and, thereby, forgo the
extra $4,000 it could have extracted from the bidder. Once the target
knows that its true value to the bidder is $12,000, it is in a much
better position to obtain this full value when the acquisition is
completed. Therefore, not only should a bidding firm inform itself
about the value of a target, target firms must inform themselves
about their value to potential bidders. In this way, they can help
obtain the full value of their assets.


Invite Other Bidders to Join the Bidding
Competition
Once a target firm is fully aware of the nature and value of the
economies of scope that exist between it and current bidding firms, it
can exploit this information by seeking other firms that may have the
same relationship with it and then informing these firms of a potential
acquisition opportunity. By inviting other firms into the bidding
process, the target firm increases the competitiveness of the market
for corporate control, thereby increasing the probability that the value
created by an acquisition will be fully captured by the target firm.
Delay, but Do Not Stop, the Acquisition
As suggested earlier, bidding firms have a strong incentive to
expedite the acquisition process to prevent other bidders from
becoming involved in an acquisition. Of course, the target firm wants
other bidding firms to enter the process. To increase the probability
of receiving more than one bid, target firms have a strong incentive
to delay an acquisition.


The objective, however, should be to delay an acquisition to create a
more competitive market for corporate control, not to stop an
acquisition. If a valuable economy of scope exists between a bidding
firm and a target firm, the merger of these two firms will create
economic value. If the market for corporate control within which this
merger occurs is competitive, then the equity holders of the target
firm will appropriate the full value of this economy of scope.
Preventing an acquisition in this setting can be very costly to the
equity holders of the target firm.


Target firm managers can engage in a wide variety of activities to
delay the completion of an acquisition. Some common responses of
target firm management to takeover efforts, along with their
economic implications for the equity holders of target firms, are
discussed in the Research Made Relevant         feature.
R E S E A R C H M A D E R E L E VA N T
The Wealth Effects of Management Responses to
Takeover Attempts


Managers in potential target firms can respond to takeover
attempts in a variety of ways. As suggested in Table 12.7          ,
some of these responses increase the wealth of target firm
shareholders, some have no impact on target firm
shareholders, and others decrease the wealth of target firm
shareholders.

TA B L E

12.7 The Wealth Effects of Target Firm Management
Responses to Acquisition Efforts


Management responses that have the effect of reducing the
value of target firms include greenmail, standstill agreements,
and “poison pills.” Each of these is an anti-takeover action
that target firm managers can take to reduce the wealth of
target firm equity holders. Greenmail      is a maneuver in
which a target firm’s management purchases any of the target
firm’s stock owned by a bidder and does so for a price that is
greater than the current market value of that stock. Greenmail
effectively ends a bidding firm’s effort to acquire a particular
target and does so in a way that can greatly reduce the
wealth of a target firm’s equity holders. Not only do these
equity holders not appropriate any economic value that could
have been created if an acquisition had been completed, but
they must bear the cost of the premium price that
management pays to buy its stock back from the bidding firm.

Not surprisingly, target firms that resort to greenmail
substantially reduce the economic wealth of their equity
holders. One study found that the value of target firms that
pay greenmail drops, on average, 1.76 percent. Another
study reported a 2.85 percent drop in the value of such firms.
These reductions in value are greater if greenmail leads to
the cancellation of a takeover effort. Indeed, this second
study found that such episodes led to a 5.50 percent
reduction in the value of target firms. These reductions in
value as a response to greenmail activities stand in marked
contrast to the generally positive market response to efforts
by a firm to repurchase its own shares in nongreenmail
situations.

Standstill agreements       are often negotiated in conjunction
with greenmail. A standstill agreement is a contract between
a target and a bidding firm wherein the bidding firm agrees
not to attempt to take over the target for some period of time.
When a target firm negotiates a standstill agreement, it
prevents the current acquisition effort from being completed,
and it reduces the number of bidders that might become
involved in future acquisition efforts. Thus, the equity holders
of this target firm forgo any value that could have been
created if the current acquisition had occurred, and they also
lose some of the value that they could have appropriated in
future acquisition episodes by the target’s inviting multiple
bidders into a market for corporate control.

Standstill agreements, either alone or in conjunction with
greenmail, reduce the economic value of a target firm. One
study found that standstill agreements that were
unaccompanied by stock repurchase agreements reduced the
value of a target firm by 4.05 percent. Such agreements, in
combination with stock repurchases, reduced the value of a
target firm by 4.52 percent.

So-called poison pills     include any of a variety of actions
that target firm managers can take to make the acquisition of
the target prohibitively expensive. In one common poison-pill
maneuver, a target firm issues rights to its current
stockholders indicating that if the firm is acquired in an
unfriendly takeover, it will distribute a special cash dividend to
stockholders. This cash dividend effectively increases the
cost of acquiring the target and can discourage otherwise
interested bidding firms from attempting to acquire this target.
Another poison-pill tactic substitutes the distribution of
additional shares of a target firm’s stock, at very low prices,
for the special cash dividend. Issuing this low-price stock to
current stockholders effectively undermines the value of a
bidding firm’s equity investment in a target and thus increases
the cost of the acquisition. Other poison pills involve granting
current stockholders other rights—rights that effectively
increase the cost of an unfriendly takeover.
Although poison pills are creative devices that target firms
can use to prevent an acquisition, they generally have not
been very effective. If a bidding firm and a target firm are
strategically related, the value that can be created in an
acquisition can be substantial, and most of this value will be
appropriated by the stockholders of the target firm. Thus,
target firm stockholders have a strong incentive to see that
the target firm is acquired, and they are amenable to direct
offers made by a bidding firm to them as individual investors;
these are called tender offers. However, to the extent that
poison pills actually do prevent mergers and acquisitions,
they are usually bad for the equity holders of target firms.

Target firm management can also engage in a wide variety of
actions that have little or no impact on the wealth of a target
firm’s equity holders. One class of these responses is known
as shark repellents. Shark repellents      include a variety of
relatively minor corporate governance changes that, in
principle, are supposed to make it somewhat more difficult to
acquire a target firm. Common examples of shark repellents
include supermajority voting rules       (which specify that
more than 50 percent of the target firm’s board of directors
must approve a takeover) and state incorporation laws (in
some states, incorporation laws make it difficult to acquire a
firm incorporated in that state). However, if the value created
by an acquisition is sufficiently large, these shark repellents
will neither slow an acquisition attempt significantly nor
prevent it from being completed.
Another response that does not affect the wealth of target firm
equity holders is known as the Pac Man defense          . Targets
using this tactic fend off an acquisition by taking over the firm
or firms bidding for them. Just as in the old video game, the
hunted becomes the hunter; the target turns the tables on
current and potential bidders. It should not be too surprising
that the Pac Man defense does not, on average, either hurt or
help the stockholders of target firms. In this defense, targets
become bidders, and we know from empirical literature that,
on average, bidding firms earn only zero economic profits
from their acquisition efforts. Thus, one would expect that, on
average, the Pac Man defense would generate only zero
economic profits for the stockholders of target firms
implementing it.

Another ineffective and inconsequential response is called a
crown jewel sale      . The idea behind a crown jewel sale is
that sometimes a bidding firm is interested in just a few of the
businesses currently being operated by the target firm. These
businesses are the target firm’s “crown jewels.” To prevent an
acquisition, the target firm can sell off these crown jewels,
either directly to the bidding firm or by setting up a separate
company to own and operate these businesses. In this way,
the bidding firm is likely to be less interested in acquiring the
target.

A final, relatively ineffective defense that most target firm
managers pursue is filing lawsuits against bidding firms.
Indeed, at least in the United States, the filing of a lawsuit has
been almost automatic as soon as an acquisition effort is
announced. These suits, however, usually do not delay or
stop an acquisition or merger.

Finally, as suggested in Table 12.7      , some of the actions
that the management of target firms can take to delay (but not
stop) an acquisition actually benefit target firm equity holders.
The first of these is the search for a white knight —another
bidding firm that agrees to acquire a particular target in the
place of the original bidding firm. Target firm management
may prefer to be acquired by some bidding firms over others.
For example, it may be that some bidding firms possess
much more valuable economies of scope with a target firm
than other bidding firms. It may also be that some bidding
firms will take a longer-term view in managing a target firm’s
assets than other bidding firms. In both cases, target firm
managers are likely to prefer some bidding firms over others.

Whatever motivation a target firm’s management has, inviting
a white knight to bid on a target firm has the effect of
increasing the number of firms bidding for a target by at least
one. If there is currently only one bidder, inviting a white
knight into the bidding competition doubles the number of
firms bidding for a target. As the number of bidders increases,
the competitiveness of the market for corporate control and
the likelihood that the equity holders of the target firm will
appropriate all the value created by an acquisition also
increase. On average, the entrance of a white knight into a
competitive bidding contest for a target firm increases the
wealth of target firm equity holders by 17 percent.

If adding one firm into the competitive bidding process
increases the wealth of target firm equity holders some, then
adding more firms to the process is likely to increase this
wealth even more. Target firms can accomplish this outcome
by creating an auction      among bidding firms. On average,
the creation of an auction among multiple bidders increases
the wealth of target firm equity holders by 20 percent.

A third action that the managers of a target firm can take to
increase the wealth of their equity holders from an acquisition
effort is the institution of golden parachutes    . A golden
parachute is a compensation arrangement between a firm
and its senior management team that promises these
individuals a substantial cash payment if their firm is acquired
and they lose their jobs in the process. These cash payments
can appear to be very large, but they are actually quite small
in comparison to the total value that can be created if a
merger or acquisition is completed. In this sense, golden
parachutes are a small price to pay to give a potential target
firm’s top managers incentives not to stand in the way of
completing a takeover of their firm. Put differently, golden
parachutes reduce agency problems for the equity holders of
a potential target firm by aligning the interests of top
managers with the interests of that firm’s stockholders. On
average, when a firm announces golden parachute
compensation packages for its top management team, the
value of this potential target firm’s equity increases by seven
percent.

Overall, substantial evidence suggests that delaying an
acquisition long enough to ensure that a competitive market
for corporate control emerges can significantly benefit the
equity holders of target firms. One study found that when
target firms did not delay the completion of an acquisition,
their equity holders experienced, on average, a 36 percent
increase in the value of their stock once the acquisition was
complete. If, however, target firms did delay the completion of
the acquisition, this average increase in value jumped to 65
percent.

Of course, target firm managers can delay too long. Delaying
too long can create opportunity costs for their firm’s equity
holders because these individuals do not actually realize the
gain from an acquisition until it has been completed. Also,
long delays can jeopardize the completion of an acquisition,
in which case the equity holders of the target firm do not
realize any gains from the acquisition. 22
Organizing to Implement a Merger
or Acquisition
Objective 12.4 Describe the major challenges that firms integrating
               acquisitions are likely to face.


To realize the full value of any strategic relatedness that exists
between a bidding firm and a target firm, the merged organizations
must be organized appropriately. The realization of each of the types
of strategic relatedness discussed earlier in this chapter requires at
least some coordination and integration between the bidding and
target firms after an acquisition has occurred. For example, to realize
economies of scale from an acquisition, bidding and target firms
must coordinate in the combined firm the functions that are sensitive
to economies of scale. To realize the value of any technology that a
bidding firm acquires from a target firm, the combined firm must use
this technology in developing, manufacturing, or selling its products.
To exploit underutilized leverage capacity in the target firm, the
balance sheets of the bidding and target firms must be merged, and
the resulting firm must then seek additional debt funding. To realize
the opportunity of replacing the target firm’s inefficient management
with more efficient management from the bidding firm, these
management changes must actually take place.
Post-acquisition coordination and integration is essential if bidding
and target firms are to realize the full potential of the strategic
relatedness that drove the acquisition in the first place. If a bidding
firm decides not to coordinate or integrate any of its business
activities with the activities of a target firm, then why was this target
firm acquired? Just as corporate diversification requires the active
management of linkages among different parts of a firm, mergers
and acquisitions (as one way in which corporate diversification
strategies can be created) require the active management of
linkages between a bidding and a target firm.
Post-Merger Integration and
Implementing a Diversification
Strategy
Given that most merger and acquisition strategies are used to create
corporate diversification strategies, the organizational approaches
previously described for implementing diversification are relevant for
implementing merger and acquisition strategies as well. Thus,
mergers and acquisitions designed to create diversification
strategies should be managed through the M-form structure. The
management control systems and compensation policies associated
with implementing diversification strategies should also be applied in
organizing to implement merger and acquisition strategies. In
contrast, mergers and acquisitions designed to create vertical
integration strategies should be managed through the U-form
structure and have management controls and compensation policies
consistent with this strategy.
Special Challenges in Post-
Merger Integration
Although, in general, organizing to implement merger and acquisition
strategies can be seen as a special case of organizing to implement
corporate diversification strategies or vertical integration strategies,
implementing merger and acquisition strategies can create special
problems. Most of these problems reflect the fact that operational,
functional, strategic, and cultural differences between bidding and
target firms involved in a merger or acquisition are likely to be much
greater than these same differences between the different parts of a
diversified or vertically integrated business that was not created
through acquisition. The reason for this difference is that the firms
involved in a merger or acquisition have had a separate existence,
separate histories, separate management philosophies, and
separate strategies.

Differences between bidding and target firms can manifest
themselves in a wide variety of ways. For example, the firms may
own and operate different computer systems, different telephone
systems, and other conflicting technologies. These firms might have
very different human resource policies and practices. One firm might
have a very generous retirement and health care program; the other,
a less generous program. One firm’s compensation system might
focus on high salaries; the other firm’s compensation system might
focus on large cash bonuses and stock options. Also, these firms
might have very different relationships with customers. At one firm,
customers might be thought of as business partners; in another, the
relationship with customers might be more arm’s-length in character.
Integrating bidding and target firms may require the resolution of
numerous differences.


Perhaps the most significant challenge in integrating bidding and
target firms has to do with cultural differences. 23 In Chapter 3 , it
was suggested that it can often be difficult to change a firm’s
organizational culture. The fact that a firm has been acquired does
not mean that the culture in that firm will rapidly change to become
more like the culture of the bidding firm; cultural conflicts can last for
very long periods of time.

The failures of what some observers believe are some of the worst
acquisitions ever have all been attributed to cultural clashes. 24 For
example, the merger between Daimler (the maker of Mercedes-
Benz) and Chrysler pitted the culture of a German company that
focused on luxury vehicles with a midwestern U.S. company that
sold lower-prestige cars and Jeeps. The merger became the source
of a widely known joke: “How do you pronounce DaimlerChrysler?
Daimler. The Chrysler is silent.” These two firms split after only a few
painful years.


Also, Novell’s acquisition of Word Perfect brought together two
management teams that refused to cooperate. While Novell and
Word Perfect managers fought each other, Microsoft emerged as the
dominant firm in the word processing industry with Microsoft Word.
After two years, Novell sold Word Perfect for $1 billion less than its
purchase price.

Another disastrous acquisition involved the combination of America
Online (AOL) and Time Warner. In 2000, before the merger, AOL’s
shares sold for more than $75; in 2008, after the merger, they sold
for $15. The problem: the clash between the “new media” AOL
culture with the “old media” Time Warner culture.

Sprint’s acquisition of Nextel was also a spectacular failure. In 2005,
the deal cost Sprint $35 billion. Within three years, 80 percent of
Sprint’s investment in Nextel was written off. The culprit, once again,
was the clash between the cultures of these two firms—Sprint was a
“button-down” bureaucratic culture that could not tolerate Nextel’s
more freewheeling entrepreneurial culture. The two management
teams fought about everything from advertising strategy to cell
phone technology. Not surprisingly, in 2012, SprintNextel was
purchased by the third-largest Japanese mobile phone company,
Softbank, for $20.1 billion—almost $15 billion less than Sprint had
paid for Nextel seven years earlier.


Finally, HP’s acquisition of Compaq reduced the market
capitalization of HP by approximately $13 billion. HP’s engineering
and consensus-driven culture clashed with Compaq’s quick-decision,
sales-driven culture. After several years, HP made cultural and
leadership changes that have improved the performance of this
acquisition, but this integration has been long in coming.
Operational, functional, strategic, and cultural differences between
bidding and target firms can all be compounded by the merger and
acquisition process—especially if that process was unfriendly.
Unfriendly takeovers can generate anger and animosity among the
target firm management that is directed toward the management of
the bidding firm. Research has shown that top management turnover
is much higher in firms that have been taken over compared with
firms not subject to takeovers, reflecting one approach to resolving
these management conflicts. 25


The difficulties often associated with organizing to implement a
merger and acquisition strategy can be thought of as an additional
cost of the acquisition process. Bidding firms, in addition to
estimating the value of the strategic relatedness between
themselves and a target firm, also need to estimate the cost of
organizing to implement an acquisition. The value that a target firm
brings to a bidding firm through an acquisition should be discounted
by the cost of organizing to implement this strategy. In some
circumstances, it may be the case that the cost of organizing to
realize the value of strategic relatedness between a bidding firm and
a target may be greater than the value of that strategic relatedness,
in which case the acquisition should not occur. For this reason, many
observers argue that potential economies of scope between bidding
and target firms are often not fully realized.


Although organizing to implement mergers and acquisitions can be a
source of significant cost, it can also be a source of value and
opportunity. Some scholars have suggested that value creation can
continue to occur in a merger or acquisition long after the formal
acquisition is complete. 26 As bidding and target firms continue to
coordinate and integrate their operations, unanticipated opportunities
for value creation can be discovered. These sources of value could
not have been anticipated at the time a firm was originally acquired
(and thus are, at least partially, a manifestation of a bidding firm’s
good luck), but bidding firms can influence the probability of
discovering these unanticipated sources of value by learning to
cooperate effectively with target firms while organizing to implement
a merger or acquisition strategy.
Summary
Firms can use mergers and acquisitions to create corporate
diversification and vertical integration strategies. Mergers or
acquisitions between firms with no economies of scope can be
expected to generate only competitive parity for both bidders and
targets. Thus, firms contemplating merger and acquisition strategies
must search for targets where those economies of scope exist.

Several sources of these economies of scope have been discussed
in literature. On average, the acquisition of these targets does create
economic value, but most of that value is captured by the equity
holders of target firms. The equity holders of bidding firms generally
gain competitive parity even when bidding firms acquire targets with
economies of scope. Empirical research on mergers and acquisitions
is consistent with these expectations. On average, acquisitions do
create value, but that value is captured by target firms, and
acquisitions do not hurt bidding firms.


Given that most mergers and acquisitions generate only zero
economic profits for bidding firms, an important question becomes:
“Why are there so many mergers and acquisitions?” Explanations
include: (1) the desire to ensure firm survival; (2) the existence of
free cash flow; (3) agency problems between bidding firm managers
and equity holders; (4) managerial hubris; and (5) the possibility that
some bidding firms might earn economic profits from implementing
merger and acquisition strategies.

To gain competitive advantages and economic profits from mergers
or acquisitions, these strategies must be either valuable, rare, and
private or valuable, rare, and costly to imitate. In addition, a bidding
firm may exploit unanticipated sources of strategic relatedness with a
target. These unanticipated sources of relatedness can also be a
source of economic profits for a bidding firm. These observations
have several implications for the managers of bidding and target
firms.


Organizing to implement a merger or acquisition strategy can be
seen as a special case of organizing to implement a corporate
diversification or vertical integration strategy. However, historical
differences between bidding and target firms may make the
integration of different parts of a firm created through acquisitions
more difficult than if a firm is not created through acquisitions.
Cultural differences between bidding and target firms are particularly
problematic. Bidding firms need to estimate the cost of organizing to
implement a merger or acquisition strategy and discount the value of
a target by that cost. However, organizing to implement a merger or
acquisition can also be a way that bidding and target firms can
discover unanticipated economies of scope.
My Lab Management
Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management to
complete the problems marked with this icon   .
Challenge Questions
   12.1. Consider the following scenario: a firm acquires a
   strategically related target after successfully fending off four
   other bidding firms. Under what conditions, if any, can the firm
   that acquired this target expect to earn an economic profit
   from doing so?
      12.2. Consider this scenario: a firm acquires a strategically
   related target; there were no other bidding firms. Under what
   conditions, if any, can the firm that acquired this target expect
   to earn an economic profit from doing so?
   12.3. Some researchers have argued that the existence of
   free cash flow can lead managers in a firm to make
   inappropriate acquisition decisions. To avoid these problems,
   these authors have argued that firms should increase their
   debt-to-equity ratio and “soak up” free cash flow through
   interest and principal payments. Is free cash flow a significant
   problem for many firms?
   12.4. What are the strengths and weaknesses of increased
   leverage as a response to free cash flow problems in a firm?
   12.5. The hubris hypothesis suggests that managers continue
   to engage in acquisitions, even though, on average, they do
   not generate economic profits, because of the unrealistic
   belief on the part of these managers that they can manage a
   target firm’s assets more efficiently than that firm’s current
   management. This type of systematic non-rationality usually
does not last too long in competitive market conditions. Firms
led by managers with these unrealistic beliefs change, are
acquired, or go bankrupt in the long run. What are the
attributes of the market for corporate control that suggest that
managerial hubris could exist in this market, despite its
performance-reducing implications for bidding firms?
12.6. The hubris hypothesis suggests that managers continue
to engage in acquisitions, even though, on average, they do
not generate economic profits, because of the unrealistic
belief on the part of these managers that they can manage a
target firm’s assets more efficiently than that firm’s current
management. This type of systematic nonrationality usually
does not last too long in competitive market conditions. Firms
led by managers with these unrealistic beliefs change, are
acquired, or go bankrupt in the long run. Can the hubris
hypothesis be a legitimate explanation for continuing
acquisition activity?
   12.7. It has been shown that so-called poison pills rarely
prevent a takeover from occurring. In fact, sometimes when a
firm announces that it is instituting a poison pill, its stock price
goes up. Why?
Problem Set
  12.8. For each of the following scenarios, estimate how much
  value an acquisition will create, how much of that value will be
  appropriated by each of the bidding firms, and how much of
  that value will be appropriated by each of the target firms. In
  each of these scenarios, assume that firms do not face
  significant capital constraints.
       a. A bidding firm, A, is worth $27,000 as a stand-alone
          entity. A target firm, B, is worth $12,000 as a stand-
          alone entity, but $18,000 if it is acquired and integrated
          with Firm A. Several other firms are interested in
          acquiring Firm B, and Firm B is also worth $18,000 if it
          is acquired by these other firms. If Firm A acquired
          Firm B, would this acquisition create value? If yes, how
          much? How much of this value would the equity
          holders of Firm A receive? How much would the equity
          holders of Firm B receive?
       b. The same scenario as above except that the value of
          Firm B, if it is acquired by the other firms interested in
          it, is only $12,000.
       c. The same scenario in part (a), except that the value of
          Firm B, if it is acquired by the other firms interested in
          it, is $16,000.
       d. The same scenario as in part (b), except that Firm B
          contacts several other firms and explains to them how
      they can create the same value with Firm B that Firm A
      does.
    e. The same scenario as in part (b), except that Firm B
       sues Firm A. After suing Firm A, Firm B installs a
      “supermajority” rule in how its board of directors
      operates. After putting this new rule in place, Firm B
      offers to buy back any stock purchased by Firm A for
      20 percent above the current market price.




MyLab Management
Go to www.pearson.com/mylab/management for
Auto-graded writing questions as well as the following
Assisted-graded writing questions:


        12.9. How would a firm’s investment in
      merger and acquisition strategies, on average,
      be expected to generate at least competitive
      parity for bidding firms?
End Notes
1    See fowardthinking.pcmag.com/ssoftware/286148-the-rise-of-dos-how-micorsoft-got-
the-IBM-pc-contract; www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2010/12/10-at-110-
billion-microsfot-windows-is-most-valuable-software-franchise/#2C9654c76dad;
www.businessinsider.com/bad-acquisitions-2011-8; www.computerworlduk.com/
galleries/it-vendors/acqusitions-microsoft-wished-it-never-made-3620320;
www.techradar.com/new/internet/voip/skype-turns-10-did-microsoft-s-sbet-payoff-1176537;
www.wsyu.com/articles/microsoft-has-mixed-record-of-success-on-big-acquisitions-
1465851304; www.trustedreviews.com/opinions/7-major-tech-acquisition-failures. All
accessed March 6, 2017;
2    See www.cnbc.com/id/100917279/why-insder-trading-should-be-legal;
www.forbes.com/sites/jeffreydorfman/2015/03/22/a-modern-insider-trading-law-
would-recognize-the-victims-of-the-current-law/#a9Od4be34b3e;
www.investmentbank.com/fees; www.eurofound.europa.eu/observatories/eurowork/
articles/impact-of-mergers-and-acquisitions-on-employment-and-labor-relations
3    See Welch, D., and G. Edmondson. (2004). “A shaky automotive ménage à trois.”
BusinessWeek, May 10, pp. 40–41.
4    https://imaa-institute.org/merger-and-acquisitions-statistics. Accessed March 6, 2017.
5    Here, and throughout this chapter, it is assumed that capital markets are semi-strong
efficient, that is, all publicly available information about the value of a firm’s assets is
reflected in the market price of those assets. One implication of semi-strong efficiency is
that firms will be able to gain access to the capital they need to pursue any strategy that
generates positive present value. See Fama, E. F. (1970). “Efficient capital markets: A
review of theory and empirical work.” Journal of Finance, 25, pp. 383–417.
6    See Trautwein, I. (1990). “Merger motives and merger prescriptions.” Strategic
Management Journal, 11, pp. 283–295; and Walter, G., and J. B. Barney. (1990).
“Management objectives in mergers and acquisitions.” Strategic Management Journal, 11,
pp. 79–86. The three lists of potential links between bidding and target firms were
developed by the Federal Trade Commission; Lubatkin, M. (1983). “Mergers and the
performance of the acquiring firm.” Academy of Management Review, 8, pp. 218–225; and
Jensen, M. C., and R. S. Ruback. (1983). “The market for corporate control: The scientific
evidence.” Journal of Financial Economics, 11, pp. 5–50.
7    See Huey, J. (1995). “Eisner explains everything.” Fortune, April 17, pp. 44–68; and
Lefton, T. (1996). “Fitting ABC and ESPN into Disney: Hands in glove.” Brandweek, 37(18),
April 29, pp. 30–40.
8    This is because if the combined firm is worth $32,000 the bidder firm is worth $15,000
on its own. If a bidder pays, say, $20,000 for this target, it will be paying $20,000 for a firm
that can only add $17,000 in value. So, a $20,000 bid would lead to a $3000 economic loss.
9    This is Jensen, M. C., and R. S. Ruback. (1983). “The market for corporate control:
The scientific evidence.” Journal of Financial Economics, 11, pp. 5–50.
10    A. Arikan (2004). “Long-term returns to acquisitions: The case of purchasing tangible
and intangible assets.” Unpublished, Fisher College of Business, Ohio State University; S.
J. Brown and J. B. Warner (1985). “Using daily stock returns: The case of event studies.”
Journal of Financial Economics, 14, pp. 3–31; D. Henry, M. Der Hovanseian, and D. Foust
(2003). “M&A deals: Show me.” BusinessWeek, November 10, pp. 10+
11    See Lubatkin, M. (1987). “Merger strategies and stockholder value.” Strategic
Management Journal, 8, pp. 39–53; and Singh, H., and C. A. Montgomery. (1987).
“Corporate acquisition strategies and economic performance.” Strategic Management
Journal, 8, pp. 377–386.
12    See Grant, L. (1995). “Here comes Hugh.” Fortune, August 21, pp. 43–52; Serwer, A.
E. (1995). “Why bank mergers are good for your savings account.” Fortune, October 2, p.
32 and Deogun, N. (2000). “Europe catches merger fever as global volume sets record.”
The Wall Street Journal, January 3, p. R8.
13    The concept of free cash flow has been emphasized in Jensen, M. C. (1986).
“Agency costs of free cash flow, corporate finance, and takeovers.” American Economic
Review, 76, pp. 323–329; and Jensen, M. (1988). “Takeovers: Their causes and
consequences.” Journal of Economic Perspectives, 2, pp. 21–48.
14    See Miles, R. H., and K. S. Cameron. (1982). Coffin nails and corporate strategies.
Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall.
15    Roll, R. (1986). “The hubris hypothesis of corporate takeovers.” Journal of Business,
59, pp. 205–216.
16    See Dodd, P. (1980). “Merger proposals, managerial discretion and stockholder
wealth.” Journal of Financial Economics, 8, pp. 105–138; Eger, C. E. (1983). “An empirical
test of the redistribution effect in pure exchange mergers.” Journal of Financial and
Quantitative Analysis, 18, pp. 547–572; Firth, M. (1980). “Takeovers, shareholder returns,
and the theory of the firm.” Quarterly Journal of Economics, 94, pp. 235–260; Varaiya, N.
(1985). “A test of Roll’s hubris hypothesis of corporate takeovers.” Working paper, Southern
Methodist University, School of Business; Ruback, R. S., and W. H. Mikkelson. (1984).
“Corporate investments in common stock.” Working paper, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Sloan School of Business; and Ruback, R. S. (1982). “The Conoco takeover
and stockholder returns.” Sloan Management Review, 14, pp. 13–33.
17    This section of the chapter draws on Barney, J. B. (1988). “Returns to bidding firms in
mergers and acquisitions: Reconsidering the relatedness hypothesis.” Strategic
Management Journal, 9, pp. 71–78.
18    See Turk, T. A. (1987). “The determinants of management responses to interfirm
tender offers and their effect on shareholder wealth.” Unpublished doctoral disserta tion,
Graduate School of Management, University of California at Irvine. In fact, this is an
example of an anti-takeover action that can increase the value of a target firm. These anti-
takeover actions are discussed later in this chapter.
19    See Bower, J. (1996). “WPP-integrating icons.” Harvard Business School Case No.
9-396-249.
20    See Jemison, D. B., and S. B. Sitkin. (1986). “Corporate acquisitions: A process
perspective.” Academy of Management Review, 11, pp. 145–163.
21    Blackwell, R. D. (1998). “Service Corporation International.” Presented to The
Cullman Symposium, October, Columbus, OH.
22    R. Walkling and M. Long (1984). “Agency theory, managerial welfare, and takeover
bid resistance.” Rand Journal of Economics, 15(1), pp. 54–68; R. D. Kosnik (1987).
“Greenmail: A study of board performance in corporate governance.” Administrative
Science Quarterly, 32, pp. 163–185; J. Walsh (1989). “Doing a deal: Merger and acquisition
negotiations and their impact upon target company top management turnover.” Strategic
Management Journal, 10, pp. 307–322; L. Y. Dann and H. DeAngelo (1983). “Standstill
agreements, privately negotiated stock repurchases, and the market for corporate control.”
Journal of Financial Economics, 11, pp. 275–300; M. Bradey and L. Wakeman (1983). “The
wealth effects of targeted share repurchases.” Journal of Financial Economics, 11, pp. 301–
328; H. Singh and F. Haricento (1989). “Top management tenure, corporate ownership and
the magnitude of golden parachutes.” Strategic Management Journal, 10, pp. 143–156; T.
A. Turk (1987). “The determinants of management responses to interfirm tender offers and
their effect on shareholder wealth.” Unpublished doctoral dissertation, Graduate School of
Management, University of California at Irvine.
23    Cartwright, S., and C. Cooper. (1993). “The role of culture compatibility in successful
organizational marriage.” The Academy of Management Executive, 7(2), pp. 57–70;
Chatterjee, S., M. Lubatkin, D. Schweiger, and Y. Weber. (1992). “Cultural differences and
shareholder value in related mergers: Linking equity and human capital.” Strategic
Management Journal, 13, pp. 319–334.
24    Jacobsen, D. (2012). “Six big mergers killed by culture.” Globoforce, September 22.
25    See Walsh, J., and J. Ellwood. (1991). “Mergers, acquisitions, and the pruning of
managerial deadwood.” Strategic Management Journal, 12, pp. 201–217; and Walsh, J.
(1988). “Top management turnover following mergers and acquisitions.” Strategic
Management Journal, 9, pp. 173–183.
26    See Haspeslagh, P., and D. Jemison. (1991). Managing acquisitions: Creating value
through corporate renewal. New York: Free Press.
Case 3–1: National Hockey
League Enterprises Canada: A
Retail Proposal
Elizabeth Gray prepared this case under the supervision of Elizabeth M.A. Grasby solely
to provide material for class discussion. The authors do not intend to illustrate either
effective or ineffective handling of a managerial situation. The authors may have
disguised certain names and other identifying information to protect confidentiality.


Ivey Management Services prohibits any form of reproduction, storage or transmittal
without its written permission. Reproduction of this material is not covered under
authorization by any reproduction rights organizastion. To order copies or request
permission to reproduce materials, contact Ivey Publishing, Ivey Management Services,
c/o Richard Ivey School of Business, The University of Western Ontario, London,
Ontario, Canada, N6A 3K7; phone (519) 661-3208; fax (519) 661-3882; e-mail
cases@ivey.uwo.ca.
 Copyright © 2000, Ivey Management Services

 Version: (A) 2010-01-08
In July 1998, Glenn Wakefield, vice-president of
National Hockey League Enterprises Canada
(NHLEC), was faced with an opportunity to
pursue the development of a retail outlet solely
dedicated to Brand NHL merchandise. If
pursued, Wakefield had to select one of three
implementation options: NHLEC could retain
managerial and financial control of the facility,
control could be relinquished to a management
firm, or floor space could be rented in a
department store where NHLEC would maintain
partial control over operations. Opening a
flagship store would be a shift in the
organization’s strategy and Wakefield wondered
if it was the right thing to do.
The National Hockey League
The National Hockey League (NHL), a professional hockey
organization then housing 27 teams in total, was divided into two
conferences, each consisting of three divisions (see Exhibit 1 ).
Each team received representation from the NHL division
responsible for officiating, scouting, and public relations as well as
the marketing division, National Hockey League Enterprises.
Additionally, each NHL team employed its own marketers who were
responsible for promoting the team and selling tickets to the team’s
games.
Exhibit 1 National Hockey League




National Hockey League
Enterprises
National Hockey League Enterprises (NHLE) managed the
promotion of the game, the licensing of NHL merchandise, and the
exploitation of corporate marketing partnerships. NHLE was a large
enterprise with job descriptions ranging from “Asia/Pacific
Promotions” to “Grassroots Development”. NHLE was housed in
downtown New York, New York, U.S.A.
National Hockey League
Enterprises Canada
NHLE’s Canadian counterpart, the National Hockey League
Enterprises Canada (NHLEC), was located in Toronto, Ontario,
Canada. NHLEC was a relatively small operation under the
managerial control of the New York office (an organizational chart is
given in Exhibit 2   ).
Exhibit 2 National Hockey League Enterprises Canada
Organizational Chart

One of NHLEC’s primary strategic goals was to develop a distinct
brand image. The ever-increasing number of licensees and retailers
for NHL-branded merchandise was becoming too fragmented.
Wakefield wanted the brand’s image to be presented consistently to
consumers at the retail level. He believed this approach would, in
turn, translate into increased sales of NHL-brand merchandise and
also increased recognition of the NHL. The greatest obstacle in
achieving this goal lay not with the independent retailer, but with the
larger department store chains such as Wal-Mart. NHLEC relied on
these large retailers to push crucial sales volume but the end result
was scattered NHL merchandise and an inconsistent brand image
presented to the consumer. Frequent buyer turnover, power
struggles and turf wars among the buyers, and the sheer size of
these retailers had all contributed to NHLEC’s difficulties in
developing brand equity at a mass-market consumer level.




A New Approach
Wakefield had to find a way to convince large retailers that there was
a better way to display and promote NHL products. One potential
solution would be to focus NHLEC’s selling efforts toward the
general merchandise manager, rather than (and one step above) the
individual buyer, encouraging a more coordinated purchase and
display effort. Another option would be the introduction of the NHL’s
own store. This flagship store would sell merchandise purchased
from NHL licensees. This store would be used to illustrate to these
large retailers the positive effects that a consistent NHL brand image
could have on sales.
The Industry
While the apparel industry experienced rapid growth throughout the
1980s, the recession in the early 1990s had hurt apparel sales (see
Exhibits 3 and 4 ). Recovery from the recession had been
gradual and it was a well-known fact that apparel sales were tied
tightly to the overall level of economic activity (see Exhibit 5 for
Gross Domestic Product data and Exhibit 6 for Canadian
disposable income and expenditure on clothing).

Exhibit 3 Retail Sales in 1996–1997 ($Billions) and Growth
Rate for Canada and Ontario


Exhibit 4 Canadian Apparel Retail Sales ($Billions) and Growth
Rate (%) 1988–1997


Exhibit 5 GDP ($Billions) and Growth Rates (%) for Canada
and Ontario 1987–1996
Exhibit 6   Canadian Disposable Income ($Billions), Growth
Rates (%), and Clothing Expenditure (%) 1994–1997

With the introduction of both the Canada-U.S. Free Trade Agreement
(FTA) and the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) in
the late 1980s, Canadians had witnessed a multitude of lower priced
imports entering the market. Within the last decade, there had been
a restructuring of the retail apparel industry. Consolidation and the
emergence of U.S.-based retail giants such as Wal-Mart had
resulted in a highly concentrated retail industry. These large
Canadian retailers had sought to narrow their supplier base and
increase their margins. In addition, the Canadian dollar was trading
at a record low (around U.S. $0.66).


Although Wakefield wondered what impact all of this would have on
small NHL licensees and what the NHL store might do for these
retailers, his review of the retail industry convinced him that the
timing was right for such a venture. GDP for both Canada and
Ontario was expected to grow steadily at a rate of three per cent into
the next century. Additionally, lower unemployment, reduced housing
costs, and general consumer confidence were predicted to
characterize the years to come.
Demographics
Consumer demand was also driven by demographic factors, the first
of which was population. Refer to Exhibit 7    for selected
population growth statistics. The “baby boom” and “baby boom
echo1” population accounted for 56 per cent of the total population,
with this group driving growth in consumer demand. As baby
boomers aged, their needs in terms of apparel were likely to include
a greater emphasis on quality, comfort, functionality, value, and
service; whereas, by 1996, those in the “baby boom echo” phase
had entered their teenage years, a time when people were typically
more fashion-conscious.

Exhibit 7 Populations and Growth Rates (%) for Canada,
Ontario and Toronto
Other Trends
Canadians were spending a greater portion of their disposable
income on consumer goods such as computers, electronics, and
leisure products—leaving less for apparel. Also, as consumers
became more knowledgeable about products, they placed increased
importance on the price-value relationship. Today’s consumers
demanded “value”—high quality merchandise at reasonable prices
and had begun to shop at more inexpensive retail stores.
Furthermore, today’s consumers spent less time shopping for
apparel. Since less time was spent shopping, consumers looked for
reliable indicators of product quality and service prior to the
purchase. In addition to these changes in consumer behavior, there
was a trend towards relaxation of the dress code in the work place.

As consumers became more knowledgeable about products and
demanded more from retailers, quick response (QR) technologies—
such as electronic data interchange (EDI)—were being utilized to
provide top-notch service to customers. These technologies allowed
retailers to immediately process, store, and forward point-of-sale
statistics to the manufacturer who, in turn, could replenish inventory
levels.
Alternatives
Wakefield identified three models for establishing a NHLEC retail
presence. In the first model, NHLEC would have complete
managerial control over the location and operation of the retail store.
There were three viable locations to choose from: Vancouver,
Toronto, and Montreal. Investment funds of $2,200,000 for start-up
and approximately $800,000 in working capital would be required.
He wondered how NHLEC could raise those kinds of funds. He also
knew that if the venture was not profitable, NHLEC would have to
absorb the loss and NHLEC’s budget was simply not large enough to
sustain significant losses. If he decided to pursue this option,
Wakefield would have to convince New York to give the go-ahead.

The location would need to be 15,000 square feet in total, with
10,000 of that being retail space. The average lease range for a
downtown Toronto location was $50 to $60 per square foot.
Wakefield estimated the store could generate $750 revenue per
retail square foot per year. Cost of goods sold was estimated to be
50 percent of sales. Salaries and wages were estimated at 10
percent and other miscellaneous costs at 15 percent. Net income
would be taxed at 45 percent and the prime lending rate was
currently at 6.5 percent (borrowers would typically pay an interest
rate of prime plus one and a half percent).
In the second model, NHLEC would hire and relinquish all control to
a management firm that would handle all the operational and
administrative functions. In turn, NHLEC would collect a licensing fee
—15 percent of gross revenue—from the management firm.
Typically, a management firm would rent a much smaller space,
likely around 4,000 square feet, and might require NHLEC to invest
as much as $500,000 for furnishings and fixtures. While he knew
that several of these firms existed, he also knew that it was often a
challenge to persuade them to adopt a project. How could he pitch
the idea to such a firm?

In the third model, NHLEC could rent floor space in a major
department store (i.e., The Bay, Sears, etc.). Wakefield estimated
the location would be 200 square feet in size and would generate
$200 revenue per square foot per year. The department store usually
charged an operating fee of 10 percent of sales to manage the area
and a lease rate equal to 50 percent of revenues. An initial
investment in inventory of $6,000 and another $6,000 would be
needed to equip the space with fixtures and signage.

With these three options before him, Wakefield sat down to write out
his proposal. He knew each proposal would have to be evaluated
based on the following criteria:


   Maintaining sufficient control to present the proper “Brand NHL”
   image.
   Limiting NHLEC’s investments—both financial and human
   resources.
   Establishing a profitable retail outlet.


Glenn was unsure how important this last criterion was in the face of
the project’s true objective to increase the exposure of “Brand NHL”.
End Note
1   Children of the “baby boom.”
Case 3–2: Starbucks: An Alex
Poole Strategy Case
Alex Poole sighed heavily and rubbed his tired
eyes. It was the fourth time in the past hour he
had read the letter from his grandfather. “I don’t
know what to do,” Alex thought. I wish Gramps
could have put someone else in charge of his
estate. What if I make a mistake? Then what will
Grandma do?” Alex was a senior in college,
working on a double major in finance and
management and a minor in Chinese. He hoped
to land a job with a large, multi-national
company after graduation and move to Hong
Kong or Singapore. He was determined to get
his foot in the door at a Fortune 100 company—
no matter how hard he had to work. Alex was
used to hard work. For the past three years, he
had held down a part-time job while attending
school full time. His philosophy was that he
could afford to go to school only if he earned
enough money to cover his expenses, so he
would find a way to do it.

Alex shuffled some papers on his grandfather’s
desk and pulled up the stock chart on Starbucks
on his MacBook. “This chart is amazing,” he
thought. After going public at a split-adjusted
$0.53 per share in June 1992, the stock had
taken off. A person who had invested $1,000 in
Starbucks in the initial public offering would
have had shares worth nearly $22,000 on the
same day 10 years later. The stock continued its
run until late 2006 when the combination of the
Great Recession and internal problems caused
it to fall from a high of $39.43 per share to a low
of $6.80 per share in November 2008. The
board brought Howard Schultz, the iconic
founder of Starbucks, back as CEO in January
2008 as the company faltered. Schultz
engineered a spectacular turnaround of the
company. As of November 2013, the stock
traded at more than $80 per share.

“Gramps sure was a savvy investor. When
everyone else was saying Starbucks was
roasted, he bought the stock,” Alex thought. “But
now what should I do? I could sell it and take
profits, but Grandma will end up paying a lot of
taxes. I don’t know where to put the cash, either.
If I hold on to it and the stock goes down a lot,
I’ll feel terrible.” Alex yawned and rubbed his
eyes again. “I guess I’d better get some sleep
and try to figure it out tomorrow. I think I’ll stop
by the Starbucks on the corner in the morning
and check it out. If it’s crowded, I’ll feel better.”
WRRAANNNN! WRRAANNNN! WRRAANNNN!
WRRAANNNN! Alex groaned, rolled over, and
tried to hit the snooze button on his Clocky
alarm clock. The Clocky expertly evaded his
hand, rolled off the night table and on to the
floor. In order to cut off the ear-piercing shriek of
the alarm clock, Alex was forced to roll out of
bed and chase it around the room. Sarah, Alex’s
girlfriend, had given him the alarm clock after a
couple of close shaves in which Alex slid into his
seat next to her at their 7:30 a.m. investments
class just in time to take the weekly quiz. The
professor took missing a quiz as a personal
affront and was likely to cold-call the miscreant
on multiple occasions to ensure that the point
about being prepared and on time for class was
hammered home. Students rarely missed more
than one quiz.

Once Alex’s brain woke up enough to process
information, he realized that it was Saturday so
he didn’t need to rush to class. He took a quick
shower, got dressed, and laced up his Asics
running shoes. After a brisk three-mile run, he
stopped in at the Starbucks on the corner for
coffee and a snack. There was a line of
customers waiting, but it was moving fairly
quickly. Once he made it to the head of the line,
the barista at the register greeted him by name
with a bright smile and asked how his day was
going. Alex ordered a Venti Blonde Roast with a
slice of iced lemon pound cake. He’d heard a
rumor that the chain planned to cut the lemon
pound cake from the menu, but it was still
available. Prior to the addition of the distinctly
lighter flavored Blonde Roast, Alex rarely
shopped at Starbucks. He was one of the
estimated 40 percent of Americans who felt
Starbucks’ traditional coffee offerings were too
dark and too bitter1 for their taste. The launch of
Starbucks Blonde Roast along with its recent
“converts wanted” ad campaign had persuaded
Alex to give the new coffee a try. Now, he was
hooked on Starbucks and often joked about
needing his “Starbucks fix” to make sure he had
a good day.

While he sipped his coffee, Alex pulled out his
iPhone and began to surf the Internet for recent
news on Starbucks. After reading the company’s
press release on 3Q:13 earnings, he moved
over to SeekingAlpha.com to try to gauge
investors’ reactions to Starbucks’ better-than-
anticipated earnings. As usual, the opinions on
the stock ranged from “buy, buy, buy” to “great
company but overvalued stock.” “That didn’t
help a whole lot,” Alex thought. “Gramps always
said the company’s management team, brand
franchise, and business model were a lot more
important than the stock’s valuation or Wall
Street sentiment. He thought a company’s
balance sheet was super important, too. I guess
I had better figure out what this company does
besides serve a great cup of coffee. I know
Gramps thought Howard Schultz was one of the
best business leaders of all time, but I sure don’t
know much about him.” Alex waved good-bye to
the barista and headed out the door. He
intended to spend the afternoon in his
university’s library digging up as much
information as possible on Starbucks.

Over the next week, Alex had amassed a lot of
information on Starbucks. After visiting the
library, Alex had gone back to his apartment and
pulled out his previously unread copy of
Schultz’s book, Onward. He had been meaning
to read it for months but hadn’t gotten around to
it due to his schoolwork and Gramps’s passing.
In the course of his research, Alex found out that
Schultz was not the founder of the original
coffee roasting and retail business named
Starbucks. Schultz purchased the six Starbucks
stores and the brand name for $3.8 million in
1987 from the company’s founders. Alex thought
about what he had read about Schultz—how he
had joined Starbucks as its head of marketing in
1982 and had fallen in love with Italian coffee
bars at a trade show in Italy in 1983. Schultz
was enchanted by the connection between the
customers and coffee bar employees. “I saw
something. Not only the romance of coffee,
but . . . a sense of community. And the
connection that people had to coffee—the place
and one another,” Schultz recalled in a 2013
interview with The Biography Channel. “And
after a week in Italy, I was so convinced with
such unbridled enthusiasm that I couldn’t wait to
get back to Seattle to talk about the fact that I
had seen the future.”2

Schultz persuaded the owners of Starbucks to
let him install a coffee bar in one location.
Despite the success of the coffee bar test,
Starbucks’ founders were not interested in
transforming the company into a restaurant.
They had served coffee throughout the 1970s
and even had an espresso machine in the
stores. Nevertheless, Starbucks’ founders felt
the restaurant industry was an unattractive one.
Schultz reckoned that Italy’s 200,000 coffee bars
serving a population of just 55 million people
meant the U.S. market had huge potential to
support his vision of what he called a “third
place.” The “third place” would be a place
outside of the home and the office that would
allow people to congregate and gain a sense of
community. Schultz left Starbucks to start his
own coffee business, Il Giornale, in 1985. Two
years later, he purchased Starbucks and
merged it with Il Giornale.

“The weird thing about it,” Alex thought, “is that
anyone would want to be in the coffee business
in the 1980s. From what I can tell, it was a pretty
unattractive market.” Alex glanced down at the
chart on U.S. coffee consumption3 he had put
together and shrugged his shoulders. According
to the USDA data, Americans consumed about
33 gallons of coffee per capita in 1970. By 1987,
annual per capita coffee consumption was down
to about 27 gallons. That translated into a large
drop in the number of cups of coffee Americans
drank per day. The decline had started way back
in 1962, when Americans consumed 3.12 cups
of coffee per day. By 1980, average per capita
coffee consumption was down to about 2.0 cups
per day. U.S. average per capita coffee
consumption fell to a new all-time low of 1.67
cups per person per day in 1988.4 “How could
someone look at a declining product market—a
market in which in one generation usage had
fallen to 52 percent of the population from nearly
75 percent of Americans5—and see a
phenomenal business opportunity?” Alex
wondered.




Source: USDA Economic Research Service.




Moreover, the competition at retail was brutal.
Three large companies—Procter & Gamble
(Folgers), General Foods (Maxwell House,
Sanka), and Nestlé (Nescafe, Taster’s Choice,
Hills Brothers)—dominated the retail coffee
business with a combined market share of more
than 80 percent.6 As coffee consumption
declined, the roasting companies often relied
upon promotions and price cuts to stimulate
demand. Moreover, retail prices tended to be
tied to volatile coffee commodity prices, as
roasters were unable to hold off demands by
powerful supermarket buyers to cut prices when
bean prices fell. To protect margins, roasters
hiked retail prices when bean prices soared, but
the price hikes hurt demand and were difficult to
maintain. Although discerning Americans began
to get interested in high-quality coffees at the
beginning of the decade, specialty coffee only
accounted for about $750 million in sales in
1990 or roughly 10 percent of the market, up
from three percent of the market or $210 million
in 19837 and $50 million in 1979.8
Source: Starbucks 2012 10-K.




Against that backdrop, Schultz invented the
modern Starbucks—transforming the coffee-
roasting company into a retailer that was
backward vertically integrated into coffee bean
purchasing and roasting. Alex reflected on the
incredible success the new concept had enjoyed
during its first 20 years. By 1997, Starbucks’
revenues had grown to $975 million and the
balance sheet showed positive net cash position
(cash minus debt) of $42 million. About 86
percent of revenues were derived from the
company’s 1,325 retail stores. Starbucks tested
sales of coffee through 10 West Coast
supermarkets—expanding to 4,000 grocery
stores the next year. By the end of its next
decade, Starbucks had more than 15,000
company-owned and licensed stores. Revenues
for 2007 came in at $9.4 billion accompanied by
operating income of more than $1 billion for an
operating profit margin of 11.2 percent. Return
on invested capital was an impressive 17.7
percent in 2007—despite the company’s
whopping $282 million in cash. The company’s
average annual sales growth of 57 percent
along with its 65 percent average yearly jump in
operating profits over the decade put Starbucks
squarely in an elite class of American success
stories such as Wal-Mart.

“That’s right when things turned sour for
Starbucks,” Alex thought. Schultz stepped down
as CEO in 2000 and took a much less active
role in day-to-day operations as the company’s
chairman. Store traffic began to slow early in
2007. By fall 2007, cracks appeared in
Starbucks’ business model. The company
announced in November 2007 that traffic at its
U.S. stores had fallen for the first time. The
company also lowered its projected store
openings for fiscal 2008 and lowered its
estimates on comparable store sales growth
(sales growth in stores open 12 months or
longer). Starbucks was feeling the effects of the
stagnant economy. At the same time, Starbucks
was struggling to offset rising dairy and labor
costs and trying to fight off strong competitive
pressure from McDonald’s and Dunkin’ Donuts.
The stock dropped nearly 50 percent in 2007.

“Comps,” Alex thought. “Comps were the
company’s downfall—at least that’s what Schultz
said in his book.” Alex’s grandfather had given
him a copy of the book last Christmas. He had
inscribed, “To Alex, I hope Howard Schultz’s
extraordinary leadership and his passion will
inspire you. Love, Gramps.” Alex choked up a
bit thinking about Gramps and how much he had
tried to stand in for Alex’s dad. Alex had lost his
dad in a car accident when Alex was in the third
grade. Alex cleared his throat and went back to
reviewing his notes on Starbucks. “Comps had
gotten really ugly in 2008,” Alex thought.
Schultz and the Starbucks team spent months
diagnosing Starbucks’ problems. As Schultz
noted in Onward, “The more rocks we turned
over, the more problems we discovered.”9
Operating margins had slumped from a peak of
12.3 percent in 2005 to 11.2 percent in 2007,
but earnings still increased. That all changed in
2008 when operating earnings plunged nearly
27 percent excluding restructuring charges and
52 percent including charges. Schultz went on to
say, “From where I sat as CEO, the pieces of
our rapid decline were coming together in my
mind. Growth had been a carcinogen. When it
became our primary operating principle, it
diverted attention from revenue and cost-saving
opportunities, and we did not effectively manage
expenses such as rising construction costs and
additional monies spent on new
equipment . . . Then, as customers cut their
spending, we faced a lethal combination—rising
costs and sinking sales—which meant
Starbucks’ economic model was no longer
viable.”10 Although Starbucks had a sizable
presence in international markets, the United
States still accounted for 76 percent of company
revenues. The United States had to be fixed in
order to turn around the company.
Schultz spent the next couple of years
refocusing Starbucks on the coffee business. He
cut breakfast items from the menu and got
managers to think about customer service and
selling coffee. Schultz closed all the U.S. stores
for a day and retrained baristas on preparing the
perfect cup of espresso. He also replaced top
management and built up the company’s
capabilities in supply and logistics. The
management team tackled major inefficiencies
in the supply chain as well as in the stores.
Stores were redesigned to improve efficiency
and reduce on-the-job injuries. He also
emphasized the Starbucks experience and the
importance of being passionate about coffee.
Despite significant pressures from Wall Street,
Schultz refused to drop health care benefits for
part-time employees as he recognized the
barista was one of the fundamental drivers of
company performance. Starbucks also closed
nearly 1,000 underperforming stores and laid off
about 12,000 workers. It slowed dramatically the
rate of store expansion from about 1,300 per
year in the United States to about 300. After a
painful few years, the company came roaring
back with outstanding results. Schultz vowed
never to allow the company to make the same
mistakes again.
Alex Meets with His Broker
Two weeks later, Alex pushed his books aside and opened the
Starbucks folder on his MacBook. He sipped his Tall Caffe Mocha
Espresso and looked around the Starbucks store. There was a
steady stream of customers even at 2 in the afternoon on a Monday.
Alex had arranged a meeting with his grandfather’s stockbroker, and
the broker was 10 minutes late. He glanced down at his blue steel
ESQ Movado watch, checked the time for the hundredth time, and
drummed his pen on the table impatiently. Gramps’s broker was an
old pro—a self-made man with a flair for stock picking. Gramps and
the broker, Harry Wallace, had been close friends. They were both
members of the local Rotary Club and avid golfers.

“Alex, how’ve you been?” Alex looked up and saw Harry walking
toward him, hand outstretched. After the two had exchanged
greetings and small talk, Alex got down to business. “Harry, I’m
trying to sort out Gramps’s portfolio. His largest position is in
Starbucks, so I started there,” Alex said. He went on, “I need to
figure out whether to sell the stock or not. I’ve done quite a bit of
research on it already, but it would help if you filled in the details on
the company’s strategy for me.”


“Sure, I’d be happy to,” Harry said. “The stock had been hitting all-
time highs until it hit a bump in the road when an arbitrator decided
that Starbucks would have to pay Kraft $2.23 billion plus $537 million
in attorneys’ fees to settle a three-year-old fight between the two
companies. Starbucks and Kraft had been partners in the packaged
coffee business since 1998. Starbucks supplied the coffee and the
brand name. Kraft supplied the distribution to mass retail outlets. In
2004, the two companies renegotiated their contract and extended it
to 2014. In 2010, Starbucks terminated the agreement, claiming
Kraft had not upheld its part of the bargain and had failed to work
closely with it on marketing decisions and customer contacts.”11
Harry went on to say, “Starbucks claimed Kraft had hurt the
performance of the Starbucks brand at retail, but Kraft pointed out
that it had grown the company’s packaged coffee business from $50
million in sales to $500 million in sales. Starbucks maintained
terminating the Kraft agreement early was the right thing to do to
accelerate the growth of its mass retail business.” Harry added, “The
stock sold off –1.5 percent on the news before rebounding the next
day as Starbucks convinced investors that it had ample funds to
make the payment.”


The company’s revenue and earnings growth had been pretty
astonishing over the past couple of years as it pulled out of its 2008-
2009 slump. In the short term, the risk in the stock was that investors
are looking for another positive earnings surprise when the company
commented on holiday sales in a few weeks in Harry’s opinion.


“I’m not all that interested in the short-term outlook. You know
Gramps always focused on a company’s long-term prospects,” Alex
said. “Tell me how things look for Starbucks over the next couple of
years.”
“Starbucks has approached long-term growth in a unique way. The
way I see it, the company’s so-called blueprint for growth has a lot of
potential to keep the company’s growth high,” Harry said.
Starbucks’ Blueprint for Profitable
Growth
In late 2010, Starbucks’ management announced plans to create
long-term shareholder value through a new “blueprint for profitable
growth.” Schultz said, “Our next phase of growth will come from
extending the Starbucks Experience to our customers beyond the
third place to every part of their day, through multiple brands and
channels. Starbucks’ U.S. retail business and our connection with
our customers form the foundation on which we build all of our
lasting assets, and we will combine that with new capabilities in
multiple channels to accelerate the model we’ve created that no
other company can replicate.” Starbucks Chief Financial Officer Troy
Alstead went on to say, “Starbucks has reached a critical juncture as
we move from a high unit growth specialty retailer focused on coffee
in our stores, to a global consumer company with diversified growth
platforms across multiple channels.”12


In short, Starbucks intended to introduce new products and brands in
its Starbucks retail stores, establish a base of customers for the new
items, and later expand distribution to mass-market channels like
grocery stores. The company meant to transform itself from a
specialty retailer selling a few coffee and tea products through mass
outlets into a global consumer products powerhouse. To do so,
Starbucks planned to augment its proven model for new brand
development with vertical integration and acquisitions. Management
was confident it would be able to build a stable of billion-dollar
brands by following the model Starbucks developed with two key
products: Frappuccino and VIA.


Frappuccino was a coffee blended with ice and milk. The sugary
beverage became enormously popular with Starbucks devotees
immediately after its summer 1995 introduction. Frappuccino built up
a following in Starbucks stores before Starbucks and Pepsi pushed a
bottled version of the product into mass retail outlets. Schultz
credited a large part of Frappuccino’s retail success to Starbucks
having the, “unique opportunity every single day to reinforce the
equity of the Frappuccino blended product in our stores.”13 The $2
billion global brand commanded nearly two-thirds of the U.S. iced
coffee category in 2012.


Similarly, Starbucks introduced VIA instant coffee in its stores in
2009. According to Schultz, the product introduction marked the first
innovation other than in packaging in the instant coffee market in 50
years.14 Schultz regarded the category as one that was “ripe for
renewal.”15 Although the U.S. market for instant coffee was relatively
small at about $700 million in 2009, Schultz regarded the product
extension as a critical one for the company. He felt it would spur
innovation within the company, put Starbucks into new retail
channels like specialty sporting goods stores, and support the
company’s objective to be the undisputed coffee authority. The
instant coffee market accounted for about 40 percent of worldwide
coffee consumption and generated an estimated $21 billion per year
in sales. Higher-end instant coffees generated less than 20 percent
of instant coffee sales globally, which suggested to Schultz the
category was a candidate for “premiumization”—just as the U.S.
coffee market had been prior to Starbucks’ entry into the market.


In addition, instant coffee consumption had grown at a much faster
clip in emerging markets than in the United States, where sales of
the product were flat. Global Coffee Review magazine pegged
worldwide instant coffee growth at 7 to 10 percent and 15 to 20
percent in emerging markets from 2000 to 2012.16 Coffee drinkers in
emerging markets favored instant or soluble coffee over brewed
coffee because consumers often could not afford special coffee-
making equipment. Starbucks’ management reckoned that it could
establish the VIA brand in the United States in its own stores,
expand into mass retailing, and then move the brand into Starbucks
stores in the United Kingdom, Japan, and emerging markets. (Instant
coffee accounted for about 80 percent of all coffee sales in the
United Kingdom and 63 percent of sales in Japan.)


Schultz believed Starbucks could use technology to produce a cup of
instant coffee that would taste the same as a cup of Starbucks
brewed coffee. The challenge for Starbucks was threefold. First, the
company had to overcome the stigma of instant coffee being
associated with weak, low-quality, poor-tasting coffee in the United
States. Second, Starbucks had to convince consumers to pay a hefty
premium for VIA, which retailed for $0.82 to $0.98 per serving. Other
instant coffees could be purchased for as little as $0.04 to $0.07 per
serving. Folgers Instant Coffee Singles were priced at $0.20 per
serving. Third, the company had to overcome substantial competition
in the segment once it launched the product into supermarkets and
other mass outlets.


In order to change consumer perceptions of instant coffee, the
company employed extensive use of sampling in its own stores to
encourage consumers to taste VIA side by side with Starbucks
brewed coffee. The taste tests continued for a year before Starbucks
rolled out the product into grocery and other mass retail stores. The
company also sent baristas into its network of 3,000 licensed store-
within-a-store Starbucks locations in retailers such as Target and
Safeway to give out millions of VIA samples to customers. Starbucks
created free publicity for the brand by inviting reporters to participate
in blind taste tests comparing Starbucks brewed coffee with VIA
instant coffee. The evidence from the taste tests overwhelmingly
supported Starbucks’ claim that VIA was a convenient, less
expensive version of a Starbucks coffee rather than a low-quality,
watered-down version of “real” coffee. (An eight-ounce serving of
brewed coffee in Starbucks stores cost $1.50 in 2009.) In April 2012,
the Huffington Post conducted a blind taste test of instant coffees
and concluded that VIA Columbia was not only the best instant
coffee on the market but was indistinguishable from regular brewed
coffee.17


Starbucks had to compete against well-established brands in the
United States and elsewhere. Nestlé, the worldwide leader in instant
coffee and inventor of the product, held about 34 percent of the U.S.
instant coffee market in 2010. Kraft General Foods (Maxwell House)
was number two in the market with a share of about 26 percent,
followed by JM Smacker (Folgers) with about a 21 percent share.
Nestle had used its first-mover status to its advantage—holding 51
percent of the global market for instant coffee. In fact, Nestlé was the
largest manufacturer of packaged coffee in the world with nearly a
22 percent global share due largely to its huge presence in the
instant coffee market. Nevertheless, Starbucks grabbed more than
10 percent of the U.S. instant coffee market in VIA’s first year on the
market.

Starbucks aimed to turn VIA into a $1 billion dollar brand by
leveraging its international presence and taking on Nestlé head to
head. The company launched VIA in the Chinese market in April
2011 where Nestle controlled 75 percent of the instant coffee
market. Instant coffee accounted for 80 to 90 percent of coffee
consumption in the $11.3 billion Chinese coffee market.18 Still, by
2012, VIA had generated $300 million in annual worldwide revenues
through 80,000 distribution points in 14 countries.
Evolution Fresh
Starbucks acquired premium juice brand Evolution Fresh for $30
million in cash in late 2011. The acquisition was Starbucks’ first
major plank in a new health and wellness platform for the company.
Starbucks intended to expand the brand by launching a chain of
juice bars, selling the line through Starbucks coffeehouses, and
expanding the brand’s retail distribution. Schultz commented, “This is
the first of many things we’re going to do around health and
wellness . . . We’re not only acquiring a juice company, but we’re
using this acquisition to build a broad-based, multi-million-dollar
health and wellness business over time.”19 As it had done in the
coffee and instant coffee markets, Starbucks aimed to “reinvent the
$1.6 billion super-premium juice segment.” Starbucks claimed the
company would be able to take, “a currently undifferentiated,
commoditized product segment and introduce a unique, high-quality
product to redefine and grow the super-premium juice market.”20
According to Schultz, “Our intent is to build a national Health and
Wellness brand leveraging our scale, resources and premium
product expertise. Bringing Evolution Fresh into the Starbucks family
marks an important step forward in this pursuit.”21 By October 2013,
Evolution Fresh juice was sold in 8,000 retail locations—up from
2,000 in 2012—as well as in four standalone Evolution Fresh stores.
The company opened a $70 million factory in Rancho Cucamonga,
California, in late 2013 to support the rollout of Evolution Fresh
products across the United States.
Sales of fruit and vegetable juices and juice drinks generated an
estimated $20 billion in annual revenues in 2012. Industry sales had
not grown appreciably for more than five years. Moreover, per capita
juice consumption had declined as Americans turned to other
beverages like energy drinks and fortified waters to slake their thirst.
Per capita juice consumption declined from 6.1 gallons in 2006 to
5.17 gallons in 2011.22 In contrast, the super premium juice segment
had boomed, and sales jumped to an estimated $2.25 billion in 2013
as “juice cleanses” gained popularity and manufacturers touted the
health benefits of cold-pressed juices.

Norman Walker, supposed “health expert” and sometime
mountebank, invented cold pressing in 1910. His Norwalk hydraulic
juicer was still considered by many to be the best on the market in
2013 and retailed for a whopping $2,000. Cold pressing pulverized
fresh fruits and vegetables in order to extract all of the juice from the
produce. Evolution Fresh and others placed cold-pressed juices in
bottles and then subjected the filled bottles to high pressure while
floating in water. The high-pressure pascalization (HPP) process
stunted the growth of pathogens and extended the shelf life of the
juice from a few days to about three weeks. Mass-market brands
such as Tropicana relied on high-heat pasteurization to kill
pathogens in juice. Fans of cold-pressed juice claimed it was
healthier than pasteurized juices. While there was little scientific
evidence to support manufacturers’ claims of superior health
benefits, so-called juicers asserted the flavor of cold-pressed juice
was “closer to fresh” than mass-market stalwarts like Minute Maid or
Tropicana. Critics of cold pressing were concerned about the
product’s safety. They noted that Odawalla juice, a leader in the
cold-pressed juice category, introduced flash pasteurization after a
batch of apple juice was contaminated with E. coli in 1996. The
contaminated apple juice had caused illness in at least 66 people
and reportedly led to the death of a 16-month-old child. In fact, the
FDA had begun to push cold-pressed juice makers to include HPP or
an alternative process as a way to increase the product’s safety.
Given that each HPP machine cost $800,000 to $2 million, it was
difficult for small juicers to jump on the HPP bandwagon.23
Nevertheless, an E. coli outbreak could generate a consumer
backlash against all cold-pressed juices.


Despite Starbucks’ ambitious plans, it was not clear that the juice
market could be characterized as “commoditized.” The category was
bombarded annually with product introductions touting new flavor
combinations and health benefits. Some of the more exotic juices
introduced into the mass market in recent years included coconut
water, acai, beet juice, and Suavva Cacao. Ironically, health
concerns had stymied growth in the mass market as consumers
became concerned about the high sugar content in juices. While
whole fruits had been shown to reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes,
the high sugar content in fruit juices had some consumers shying
away from the product due to concerns over obesity. PepsiCo had
scrambled to find a solution to the sugar problem. While the
company continued to experiment with new sugar-free sweeteners, it
launched Tropicana Light and Trop50 products under the $6.2 billion
Tropicana brand. Tropicana Light was sweetened with sucralose,
and Trop50 was sweetened with stevia. Trop50 products also
contained only 42 to 43 percent juice as the liberal additional of
water allowed PepsiCo to bring down calorie count significantly and
increase gross margins. While consumers responded favorably to
the new products, PepsiCo management knew the secret to long-
term success lay in continued product innovation in sugar
replacement. PepsiCo was determined to find a natural sugar
replacement to protect its enormous global beverage business.


Juice prices ranged from a few cents per ounce for mass brands to
well over $1 per ounce for super premium products. In the super
premium segment, large food and beverage companies trying to
capitalize on the higher growth in the segment owned by the top four
brands. Odawalla (acquired by Coca-Cola in 2001), Naked Juice
(PepsiCo), Bolthouse Farms (Campbell Soup), and BluePrint (Hain
Celestial Seasonings) together controlled an estimated 51 percent of
the super premium market.

The juice bar business also was crowded with competitors trying to
take cash in on demand for healthy foods. Sales at juice bars and
smoothie chains nearly doubled between 2004 and 2012, according
to Barron’s magazine. Barron’s pegged sales at the 6,200 juice bars
and smoothie operations at about $2 billion. The top five juice and
smoothie chains—Jamba Juice, Freshens, Maui Wowi, Smoothie
King, and Orange Julius—accounted for more than 50 percent of all
of the juice and smoothie retail locations in the United States in
2012. The top 10 operators owned or had franchised about two-
thirds of the industry locations.24 Rivalry appeared to be fierce as the
large chains attempted to fight off small local competitors who often
positioned themselves as the most “authentic” purveyor of juices.
Marcus Antebi, CEO of Manhattan’s trendy Juice Press, commenting
on Organic Avenue’s appointment of a non-vegan CEO to the New
York Daily News said, “They’ll no longer represent the glossy, sexy
brand that they were five years ago, before Juice Press smothered
them. I actually water boarded them with green juice.”25
U.S. Tea Market
  Quick as thought the ships were boarded


  Hatches bust and chests displayed;


  Axe and hammers help afforded,


  What a glorious crash they made.


  Quick into the deep descended,


  Cursed weed of China’s coast;


  Thus at once our fears were ended


  Freemen’s rights shall ne’er be lost.
   —anonymous American balladeer commemorating the Boston Tea Party26




According to some sources, coffee’s popularity in the United States
relative to tea stretches back to the Revolutionary War and the
Boston Tea Party. In protest to unfair taxation and the granting of a
tea monopoly to the East India Company by British Parliament,
colonists snuck on board three tea ships (the Dartmouth, the
Eleanor, and the Beaver) on December 16, 1773, and dumped
90,000 pounds of tea into Boston Harbor. Colonists went on to
boycott British imports, including tea, for many years. Coffee and
herbal teas supposedly became popular due to the boycott as
substitutes for the colonists’ favorite beverage.

Retail and food-service sales of tea generated about $6.5 billion in
revenues in the United States and $40 billion worldwide in 2011. Tea
was the second-most consumed beverage worldwide, behind water.
However, tea remained distinctly less popular with Americans than
coffee. The beverage came in at a distant number six among
American favorites behind soft drinks, water, coffee, milk, and beer
(in that order). Nevertheless, per capita consumption of tea grew
about five percent from 2001 to 2011 as Americans sipped slightly
more than seven gallons of tea per person. In contrast, per capita
coffee consumption fell one percent, and carbonated soft drink
consumption plunged 16 percent over the period.27 As tea
consumption increased, the number of U.S. tea shops jumped from
about 1,500 in 2009 to approximately 4,000 in 2011. Costs to open a
single tea shop were relatively low with some tea shop owners
estimating it cost $10,000 to $25,000 (comparable with opening a
non-franchised pizza place) and others coming in at $100,000 to
$250,000 (a bit lower than opening a franchised pizza restaurant).28


Starbucks had long been a player in the tea market with its Tazo tea
brand, which it had acquired in 1999 for $8.1 million. The company
sold Tazo tea in grocery stores and other mass outlets as well as in
Starbucks coffeehouses. By 2012, Tazo overall was a $1.4 billion
brand for Starbucks. Although the company had been successful in
establishing a large tea brand, tea had never been a focal point for
Starbucks until it acquired Teavana Holdings. Starbucks announced
it would purchase Teavana Holdings for $620 million in cash in
November 2012. Teavana was the largest tea shop operator in the
United States with 300 retail stores mainly in shopping malls.
Founded in Atlanta in 1997, Teavana sold high-end loose-leaf teas
exclusively through its own stores.

Teavana’s mission was to establish its brand “as the most
recognized and respected brand in the tea industry by expanding the
culture of tea across the world.”29 As noted by Seattle’s
Crosscut.com reporter Ronald Holden “Just as a wine aficionado
can wax on (and on and on) about grape varieties and legendary
vintages, a devotee of tea can cite literally hundreds of varieties of
camellia sinensis leaves (white, green, oolong, black), and their
methods of ‘withering’ (steaming, pan-firing, shaking, bruising,
rolling, drying, oxidizing). Then there are the tea-like drinks that don’t
contain Camillia sinensis, like prepared herbal infusions, rooibos (red
teas) and the green-powdered matés.”30


Teavana management identified the key elements of its strategy as
developing and sourcing the world’s finest assortment of premium
loose-leaf teas and tea-related merchandise, locating stores in high-
traffic areas primarily in shopping malls and lifestyle centers, and
creating a “Heaven of Tea” retail experience for customers.
Teavana’s emphasis on training, “passionate and knowledgeable
teaologists” to, “engage and educate customers about the ritual and
enjoyment of tea”31 allowed it to charge premium prices and develop
a loyal following in the United States.
Indeed, Teavana’s approach to the market had been a very
successful and profitable one with sales soaring to $168.1 million
and operating profits of $32.6 million. Teavana’s highly productive
stores generated nearly $1,000 per square foot in sales and
comparable store sales growth of nearly nine percent in 2011 and
more than 11 percent in 2010. New stores had an average cash
payback period of just a year and a half. The retailer believed it could
drive tea category growth in the United States by educating
consumers about the health benefits of tea and the culture of tea
drinking. Each Teavana store included the “Wall of Tea,” which
allowed customers to, “experience the aroma, color, and texture” of
any of the store’s approximately 100 different varieties of single-
estate and specially blended teas.32 Like Starbucks and its coffee
culture, Teavana emphasized a company culture that celebrated a
passion for tea. To that end, Teavana had a policy of promoting from
within company ranks, extensive employee training, and teaologist
career development. Management recognized that retail success
was heavily dependent upon teaologists in the same way Starbucks’
success rested upon the barista.

Starbucks intended to develop Teavana as a major growth platform
beginning with the U.S. market. In late October 2013, Starbucks
opened the first Teavana tea bar on Manhattan’s ultra-wealthy Upper
East Side. Schultz told reporters the company expected 1,000 tea
bars in the United States over the next five years.33 Schultz was
confident that Starbucks could transform the U.S. tea market with
Teavana in the same way it had transformed the coffee market.
Some industry observers were not as sanguine about Teavana’s
prospects.

Brian Sozzi of Belus Capital Advisers noted to Forbes magazine, “I
don’t believe Teavana will ever grow into what the Starbucks brand
has become for one simple reason: tea lacks the major caffeine
count.” He added, “That sounds silly, but the bottom line is that in
this day and age of frantic tech-driven lifestyles, people want to run
on 100 mg of caffeine, and they will trade taste to make that
happen.”34 In fact, the contrast between Teavana and Starbucks
products was stark at the cultural level. Coffee typically was
associated with early-morning commutes and midday pick-me-ups.
While Starbucks had done a great job creating a welcoming
atmosphere in its coffeehouses, the pace of each shop was quick
and energetic, particularly during the morning rush hour. Tea culture
was one associated with tranquility and relaxation. Teavana’s new
tea shop invited customers to slow down and find some quiet time
while their tea brewed. According to a University of Northumberland
study consisting of 180 hours of testing and 285 cups of tea, it took
eight minutes to brew the perfect cup of tea—two minutes of soaking
the tea bag in boiling water (100°C or 212°F), removal of the tea
bag, addition of milk, and a six-minute wait for the temperature to
drop to 60°C or 140°F.35
La Boulange Café & Bakery
Starbucks acquired a small chain of San Francisco bakeries for $100
million in the third quarter of 2012. The chain, La Boulange, included
19 store locations. Starbucks intended to roll out La Boulange
products to 17,000 Starbucks coffeehouses by the end of 2013. La
Boulange Café’s major investor commented in a release about the
sale, “We have confidence that Starbucks will stay true to the La
Boulange brand while bringing the romance of an authentic French
bakery to consumers across the United States.”36 Long criticized for
having mediocre food, Starbucks nonetheless sold $1.5 billion in
food items annually. About one-third of purchases in the United
States included a food item.37 According to Pascal Rigo, vice
president of Starbucks’ food division and former owner of La
Boulange, food had been an afterthought at Starbucks.38 The
company planned to significantly upgrade the quality of its food and
add lunch items to the menu under the La Boulange banner. Baked
items were to be displayed on pink paper in the coffeehouse’s glass
cases and served warm. About 25 percent of La Boulange items
would be customized for local markets. Starbucks hoped to both take
a bigger slice of the lunch business and compete more aggressively
with fast-growing Panera Bread in the United States.
Starbucks’ Loyalty Card
Starbucks launched “My Starbucks Rewards” in 2009 as a way to
create value for its most loyal customers. Customers received points
for each purchase regardless of the amount they spent. Points were
redeemable for free Starbucks drinks and food. By early 2013,
Starbucks had 4.5 million rewards program members. The company
intended to double its reward program membership to 9 million
members by fall 2013. To that end, Starbucks announced Teavana
shoppers were eligible for My Starbucks Rewards beginning in April
2013. Starbucks customers who purchased Starbucks packaged
products in grocery stores and other retail outlets also were eligible
for My Starbucks Rewards by registering for the program and
entering product codes on the Internet. Starbucks hoped to create
value across its brands and distribution channels through its unique
loyalty program.

That evening, Alex sat down and thought about what he had learned
about Starbucks over the past few weeks. “Well, at least midterms
are over,” Alex thought. He sighed wearily. The past few days had
gone by in a blur of exams, studying, and not enough sleep. His
girlfriend, Sarah, had gotten exasperated with him for waiting until
the last minute to study for their investments midterm. He was sure
she had aced the exam but was less confident about his own score.
Alex had gotten bogged down studying for his midterm in his third-
year Mandarin course and hadn’t spent much time studying for
investments. The Mandarin class was a lot harder for Alex than his
finance courses, but the investments class was a tough one. “Sarah
was right. I shouldn’t have put studying off for so long.” To top it off,
his strategy midterm also had been a difficult one. His strategy
professor put a lot of emphasis on applying concepts to real
company situations. “It was tough to apply concepts on a couple of
hours of sleep,” Alex thought ruefully. “Well, there’s nothing I can do
about it now. I need to focus on finishing this Starbucks analysis
because I am just going to get busier as the term goes on. I haven’t
even thought about the competition. I need to figure out what
McDonald’s and Dunkin’ Donuts are up to.”
Bitter Dregs: Starbucks’ Rivalry
with McDonald’s
With $35.6 billion in U.S. sales in 2012, McDonald’s was the largest
quick-service restaurant in America and nearly three times larger
than the number two fast food operator, Subway. Coffee accounted
for an estimated 6 to 7 percent of McDonald’s U.S. sales or $2.1 to
$2.5 billion in annual revenues. Despite its substantial coffee sales,
Starbucks’ management did not publicly acknowledge McDonald’s
as a competitor. On the surface, the world’s largest fast-food
franchise had little in common with Starbucks. Known for efficiency
and low costs, McDonald’s was the Wal-Mart of fast food. Starbucks
was a premium purveyor of specialty coffees. McDonald’s empire
was built on standardization. Starbucks ran on customization.


Nevertheless, McDonald’s was long known for serving good,
inexpensive drip coffee. Moreover, McDonald’s dominated the
breakfast market with more than a 25 percent share. The company
announced in mid-2009 the rollout of McCafé specialty coffee shops
within 11,000 of its 14,000 U.S. locations. Developed in Australia in
2001, the McCafé brand and McCafé shops gave McDonald’s an
entry into the pricey and profitable premium coffee segment just as
consumers felt the pinch of the Great Recession.
As McDonald’s gained momentum in the U.S. coffee market,
Starbucks retaliated by announcing it would expand distribution of
Seattle’s Best Coffee to Burger King and Subway restaurants as well
as AMC movie theaters and other mass-market outlets. Starbucks
had acquired the brand for $72 million in 2003 but had done little to
expand Seattle’s Best’s market presence since the acquisition.
Starbucks’ management commented that the move into fast food
enabled the company to further its objective to offer great coffee
everywhere. Industry observers saw the move as a direct response
to McDonald’s market share inroads. Morgan Stanley’s John Glass
noted to Time magazine, “ . . . it makes sense to partner with Burger
King and Subway against a common enemy: McDonald’s.”39 At the
time of the rollout announcement, McDonald’s also announced its
intentions to launch frozen coffee drinks in its restaurants during
summer 2010. The Frappe retailed for $2.29 to $3.29 compared with
$3.00 to $5.00 for Starbucks’ Frappuccino.40 Whether Starbucks
wanted to admit it or not, McDonald’s new product introductions
placed it squarely in competition with Starbucks in multiple segments
of the coffee market.


In fact, McDonald’s had garnered close to 13 percent of the U.S.
coffee market by 2012. McDonald’s U.S. coffee sales had soared 70
percent since the introduction of McCafé. The company introduced a
pumpkin spice latte in fall 2013 and announced it would introduce a
white chocolate-flavored mocha at the end of November 2013. Both
product launches were aimed directly at Starbucks where the
pumpkin spice latte was a perennial customer favorite. McDonald’s
had struggled with execution in the lucrative specialty coffee market
with many McDonald’s customers complaining about lengthy waits in
the drive-through line resulting from the increased time to make the
customized drinks. Nevertheless, the coffee business remained a
bright spot in McDonald’s otherwise lackluster U.S. operations.


In November 2013, McDonald’s announced it would partner with
Kraft to bring a McCafé line of packaged coffees to supermarkets
and other mass retail outlets. McDonald’s CEO Don Thompson told
investors that coffee was one of the fastest-growing product
categories in its worldwide beverages business. Thompson also told
investors that McDonald’s did not yet have what he called “its fair
share” of the business. Kevin Newell, chief brand and strategy officer
for McDonald’s U.S., noted that 70 percent of U.S. coffee
consumption occurred at home. He characterized the move into
supermarkets with Kraft as a way to build awareness of the McCafe
brand and drive sales in McDonald’s restaurants.41 Analysts noted
that McDonald’s had 4,200 McCafe shops in international markets—
including standalone locations as well as those inside McDonald’s
restaurants—and intended to add another 350 to 400 locations in
2014 alone.
Death of the Doughnut: Dunkin’
Donuts—A Beverage Company
Dunkin’ Donuts CFO Paul Carbone told investors in mid-2013 that
Dunkin’ Donuts had moved to acknowledge publicly that the chain
was no longer a doughnut company. Carbone told analysts, “We’re a
beverage company.”42 Dunkin’ Donuts reported that 58 percent of its
franchise revenues were derived from espressos, Duncacinnos,
Coolattas, and about two dozen other beverages. The shift away
from doughnuts to coffee and coffee drinks began in about 1995.
Dunkin’ Donuts launched a line of flavored coffees to respond to
Starbucks’ expansion into its home market: Boston. At the time,
Dunkin’ Donuts was known primarily for its doughnuts and an ad
campaign that featured “Fred the Baker.” Fred’s catch phrase was,
“It’s time to make the doughnuts.” According to Time magazine,
Dunkin’ Donuts kicked off in 2006, “the most significant repositioning
effort in the company’s 55-year history.” Its new ad slogan was
“America Runs on Dunkin’.” Time noted in the same article that
Dunkin’ Donuts had positioned its mostly East Coast coffee business
as “fuel” for America rather than a lifestyle choice like Starbucks.43
With lower prices and an emphasis on practicality, Dunkin’ Donuts
appealed to the every man in a hurry. Dunkin’ Donuts’ share of the
U.S. coffee and snack shop market was about 25 percent in 2012
compared with Starbucks’ share of about 33 percent.
Nevertheless, Dunkin’s core business remained in the East. Very few
of Dunkin’s 7,300 U.S. locations were east of the Mississippi in 2012.
However, Dunkin’ Donuts management aimed to change that by
moving into California with 1,000 Dunkin’ Donuts shops. (Starbucks
had more than 2,000 locations in California in 2013, its largest
market by far.) Overall, Dunkin’ Donuts also planned to increase the
number of Dunkin’ locations in the United States to about 15,000 by
2020. Dunkin’ Donuts’ overall expansion plans were likely to put it
increasingly in head-to-head competition with Starbucks. Starbucks
planned to add about 1,500 stores to its U.S. store base of about
11,000 coffeehouses. Industry observers noted that Dunkin’ Donuts’
expansion into California marked its third attempt to crack the market
in the past 30 years. The chain had about a dozen stores in
California until the late 1990s, according to Bloomberg
BusinessWeek.44 Dunkin’ tried to reenter the Sacramento market in
2002 but pulled out quickly.45
Conclusion
Alex realized that he hadn’t spent enough time thinking about the
questions that needed to be answered in order for him to make a
decision on the stock. He spent an hour compiling questions,
scratching them out and condensing them into their most
fundamental elements. At the end of the exercise, Alex realized that
he needed to answer three questions in order to make a decision
about whether to sell the stock. Could Starbucks successfully
expand beyond the coffee shop business in a meaningful way
without destroying its core business? Could the company create
value through its diversification strategy? Would McDonald’s and
Dunkin’ Donuts eat into Starbucks’ business enough to slow the
company’s growth rate?
Reference
Miller, C. (2009). “Starbucks coffee, now in instant. New York Times,
    February 18.
End Notes
1    (2013). “Free Starbucks Blonde samples aim to sway light-roast coffee drinkers
[update].” www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/01/08/free-starbucks-blonde-
samples_n_2431793.html#slide=873948. Accessed October 15, 2013.
2    (2013). “Howard Schultz.” The Biography Channel. October 16, www.biography.com/
people/howard-schultz-21166227.
3    (2013). “Beverages: Per capita availability.” USDA Economic Research Service,
October 16, www.ers.usda.gov/data-products/food-availability-%28per-capita%29-
data-system/.aspx#.UmA9oYX5AYs.
4    Roseberry, W. (1996). “The rise of yuppie coffees and the reimagination of class in the
United States.” American Anthropologist, New Series, 98(4), p. 765.
5    Ibid., p. 765.
6    Samuelson, R. J. (1989). “The coffee cartel: Brewing up trouble.” The Washington
Post, July 26.
7    Sturdivant, S. (1990). “Coffee in the next decade: Upcoming trends (coffee in the
1990s).” Tea & Coffee Trade Journal, January 1.
8    Van Vynckt, V. (1986). “Coffee: A treat for the ‘buds: ‘Specialties’ perk up market.”
Chicago Sun-Times, April 3.
9    Schultz, H., with Gordon, J. (2011). Onward: How Starbucks fought for its life without
losing its soul. Rodale Books, Kindle Edition, p. 150.
10    Ibid., pp. 152–153.
11    D’Innocenzio, A. (2013). “Starbucks Kraft lawsuit: Coffee chain must pay $2.76 billion
to settle dispute.” Huffington Post, November 12.
12    (2010). “Starbucks outlines blueprint for multi-channel growth.” Starbucks press
release. Business Wire, December 1.
13    Schultz, H. (2012). “Starbucks CEO hosts biennial investor conference (transcript).”
December 5, p. 7. www.seekingalpha.com. Accessed November 1, 2013.
14    Ibid.
15    Schultz, H., with Gordon, J. (2011). Onward: How Starbucks fought for its life without
losing its soul. Rodale Books, Kindle Edition, p. 252.
16    (2013). “Instant coffee consumption in emerging markets.” Global Coffee Review,
March. globalcoffeereview.com/market-reports/view/instant-coffee-consumption-in-
emerging-markets. Accessed November 18, 2013.
17    (2012). “Taste test: The best instant coffee.” Huff Taste, The Huffington Post, April 5.
18    O’Brian, R. (2013). “Starbucks, Nestlé square off in bid for dominance of China’s
coffee market.” Context China. contextchina.com/2013/05/starbucks-nestle-square-off-in-
bid-for-dominance-of-chinas-coffee-market. Accessed November 17, 2013.
19    (2011). “Starbucks acquires Evolution Fresh to establish national retail and grocery
health and wellness brand.” Starbucks press release, November 10.
20    Ibid.
21    Ibid.
22    Fottrell, Q. (2013). “Graphic: Tea up 5%. Milk: Out. Wine: In. Plus 8 other drink
trends. How the nation’s thirsts have shifted over the past decade.” Marketwatch.com,
February 15 Accessed October 15, 2013.
23    Latif, R. (2013). “The juice uprising.” BevNET Magazine, September 12.
24    Blumenthal, R. (2012). “Drink up!” Barron’s, July 23.
25    Friedman, M. (2013). “Juice makers battle over market share and product purity as
sales surge.” New York Daily News, May 22.
26    “The Boston Tea Party.” United Kingdom Tea Council, www.tea.co.uk/the-boston-
tea-party. Accessed October 26, 2013.
27    Fottrell, Q. (2013). “Graphic: Tea up 5%. Milk: Out. Wine: In. Plus 8 other drink
trends. How the nation’s thirsts have shifted over the past decade.” Marketwatch.com,
February 15 Accessed October 15, 2013.
28    Simrany, J. “The state of the U.S. tea industry.” Specialty Tea Institute and Tea
Council USA.
29    (2011). Teavana prospectus form 424, July 28, p. 1.
30    Holden, R. (2013). “Cuppa inner peace? U Village Teavana expands Starbucks
empire.” Crosscut.com, Crosscut PublicMedia. November 21, crosscut.com/2013/11/21/
business/117566/starbucks-tea-volution-slinging-u-village-enlighte. Accessed
November 23, 2013.
31    (2011). Teavana prospectus form 424, July 28, p. 1.
32    Ibid.
33    O’Connor, C. (2013). “Starbucks opens its first tea bar as CEO Schultz bets on $90
billion market.” Forbes, October 23.
34    Ibid.
35    Alleyne, R. (2011). “How to make the perfect cup of tea: Be patient.” The Telegraph,
June 15.
36    Wilkey, R. (2012). “Starbucks La Boulange acquisition: Coffee giant buys local
patisserie for $100 million.” Huff Post San Francisco. Huffington Post, June 4,
www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/06/04/la-boulange-starbucks_n_1569522.html.
Accessed November 23, 2013.
37    Choi, C. (2012). “Starbucks buys La Boulange bakery for $100 million to improve
food offerings.”AP Newswire, June 4.
38    Tepper, R. (2013). “Starbucks’ new La Boulange menu is its largest-ever investment
in food.” Huffington Post, September 19, www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/09/19/starbucks-
la-boulange_n_3954803.html. Accessed November 23, 2013.
39    Gregory, S. (2010). “Starbucks aims at McDonald’s with Seattle’s Best Coffee.” Time,
May 25, content.time.com/time/business/article/0,8599,1990813,00.html#ixzz2lafvjXPz.
Accessed November 23, 2013.
40    Ibid.
41    Choi, C. (2013). “McDonald’s eyes bigger share of coffee market.”AP Newswire, ABC
News, November 14, abcnews.go.com/Business/wireStory/mcdonalds-eyes-global-
coffee-growth-20891507. Accessed November 23, 2013.
42    O’Connor, C. (2013). “Dunkin’ Donuts now class itself a ‘beverage company’ as it
aims for Starbucks and heads west.” Forbes, June 20, www.forbes.com/sites/
clareoconnor/2013/06/20/dunkin-donuts-now-calls-itself-a-beverage-company-as-it-
aims-for-starbucks-and-heads-west. Accessed November 23, 2013.
43    Sanborn, J. (2013). “Don’t call Dunkin’ Donuts a donut company.” Time. June 26,
business.time.com/2013/06/26/dont-call-dunkin-donuts-a-donut-company/
#ixzz2lbRdWNqb. Accessed November 23, 2013.
44    Wong, V. (2013). “America: Dunkin’ Donuts’ next frontier.” Bloomberg BusinessWeek,
April 11, www.businessweek.com/articles/2013-04-11/america-dunkin-donuts-next-
frontier. Accessed November 23, 2013.
45    Ibid.
Case 3–3: Rayovac Corporation:
International Growth and
Diversification Through
Acquisitions1
David T.A. Wesley prepared this case under the supervision of Professor Ravi Sarathy
solely to provide material for class discussion. The authors do not intend to illustrate
either effective or ineffective handling of a managerial situation. The authors may have
disguised certain names and other identifying information to protect confidentiality


Ivey Management Services is the exclusive representative of the copyright holder and
prohibits any form of reproduction, storage or transmittal without its written permission.
Reproduction of this material is not covered under authorization by any reproduction
rights organization. To order copies or request permission to reproduce materials,
contact Ivey Publishing, Ivey Management Services, c/o Richard Ivey School of
Business, The University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada, N6A 3K7;
phone (519) 661-3208; fax (519) 661-3882; e-mail cases@ivey.uwo.ca


Copyright © 2006, Northeastern University, College of Business Administration Version:
(A) 2009-09-21
In 2005, Rayovac announced acquisitions
totalling $1.5 billion, which encompassed the
purchases of United Industries and of Tetra
Holdings and aimed at making Rayovac the
most, “significant global player in the pet
supplies industry.”2 These acquisitions were the
latest in a series, going back to 1999, that gave
Rayovac significant market presence in new
product categories, including lawn and garden
care, household insecticides and pet foods (see
Exhibit 1 ). Through such acquisitions,
Rayovac grew from $400 million in sales in 1996
to approximately $2.8 billion in 2005. In
recognition of this major shift in both
composition and direction, the company
changed its name from Rayovac to Spectrum
Brands.
Exhibit 1 Rayovac Acquisitions (1999 to
2005) (in $ millions)
Source: Company files.
Company Background3
Rayovac was established in Madison, Wisconsin, in 1906 as the
French Dry Battery Company. After changing its name to Rayovac in
1921, the company became one of the best known battery brands in
the United States and quickly established itself as the leading
marketer of value-brand batteries in North America.

In 1996, after seeing its market share steadily eroded by Duracell,
Energizer, and Panasonic (owned by Matsushita), the company was
purchased by private equity firm Thomas H. Lee Partners (THL). At
the time, revenues were approximately $400 million. THL sought to
revive the Rayovac brand name by growing the company through
acquisitions. Initially, acquisitions focused on the battery business,
but later included businesses focused on shaving products and
personal care. This strategy met with some success as Rayovac
increased its U.S. market share from 27 percent to 34 percent
between 1996 and 2001.


Historically, most of the company’s growth had been in North
America. However, beginning in 2002, the company began to
selectively acquire battery manufacturers and distributors in key
foreign markets in an effort to establish a strong global presence.
Then in 2003, the company acquired Remington Products in its first
move to diversify away from consumer batteries.
According to David A. Jones, chief executive officer (CEO) of
Rayovac Corporation, the company’s diversification efforts had only
begun. He explained:

  We set out consciously for the first five or six years to globalize the battery and lighting
  business, which we’ve done, and we have consciously now, for some period of time,
  been looking for the right diversification moves . . . . There are other things that, over
  time, we’ll become interested in and you’ll probably see us move towards.4
The Global Battery Business
In 2003, the global battery market was worth approximately $24
billion, with the United States accounting for about one-third of total
consumption. Between 1990 and 2000, the United States achieved
an annual growth rate of 7.4 percent in alkaline battery products.
Rayovac Corporation accompanied this trend but lagged behind
Duracell and Energizer in the United States. The intensely
competitive U.S. battery market led to considerable price discounting
and required significant advertising and promotion expenditures.
Rayovac, as the No. 3 player, had to carefully choose its competitive
strategy, its product line composition and features, its price points, its
cost position, its distribution channels and its advertising strategy in
order to be able to close the competitive gap.


Gillette, owner of the Duracell brand, had annual revenues of $9
billion, followed by Energizer Holdings, with revenues of $1.7 billion.
Although Rayovac was in third place in the United States, globally, it
was the worldwide leader in hearing aid batteries, the leading
manufacturer of zinc carbon household batteries in North America
and Latin America, and the leading marketer of rechargeable
batteries and batterypowered lights in the United States.


Both Energizer and Duracell produced premium brands that sold for
approximately 15 percent above comparable Rayovac products.
Jones believed that Rayovac’s value position distinguished it from its
premium brand competitors. He explained:
  For any brand, whether it’s a value brand or premium brand, you have to have high
  quality products. And the facts are on our side. Our products are very good, high quality
  products. But once you have that, certainly our point of differentiation is value. You can
  buy our products for 10 percent to 15 percent lower than our competitors . . . . We’re
  actively outselling our value proposition, because we’ve tried to create a business model
  and a business plan different from Duracell and Energizer. Our products are as good as
  those two fine companies but sell at value price.5


For several years, battery manufacturers experienced strong growth
worldwide due to the increased use of personal electronic devices,
such as portable music players, fitness monitors, handheld
computers (PDAs) and gaming devices. Portable lighting was
another significant Rayovac product category, with 2003 global sales
approaching $3 billion, of which flashlights represented about half of
the market.

With the proliferation of personal electronic devices, average
household battery consumption increased from approximately 23
batteries per year in 1986 to 44 batteries per year in 2000. As
incomes grew, consumption in developed countries switched from
zinc carbon to the better performing and higher-priced alkaline
batteries, a trend that Rayovac expected to be duplicated in
emerging markets. According to Rayovac, the company’s strategy of
raising brand awareness and increasing the number of distribution
channels allowed it to take better advantage of market growth than
its competitors. Kent Hussey, Rayovac chief operating officer (COO),
underlined the central role of brands, noting:
    We believe that brands are very important. Being able to easily identify high-quality
    products that deliver on the value proposition and have recognizable brand names is
    very important in terms of marketing to consumers. Having that brand name that the
    consumer can identify and find on the shelf is key. We think that one of Rayovac’s core
    competencies is our expertise in marketing branded consumer products, and it’s really
    the focus of our entire business.6


From the 12 months ended September 30, 1996, through the 12
months ended April 1, 2001, Rayovac grew net sales and adjusted
income from operations from $417.9 million to $675.3 million and
from $27 million to $83.3 million, respectively. This represented an
11.3 percent and 28.4 percent compound annual growth rate in net
sales and adjusted income from operations, respectively. In addition,
adjusted income from operations margins improved from 6.5 percent
for the 12 months ended September 30, 1996, to 12.3 percent for the
12 months ended April 1, 2001 (see Exhibits 2                        to 5     ).


Exhibit 2 Rayovac Financial Summary (for years ending
September 30) (in $ millions)
Source: Company 2004 Annual Report.
Exhibit 3 Rayovac Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated
Balance Sheets (for years ending September 30) (in $ millions)
Source: Company 2004 Annual Report.
Exhibit 4 Rayovac Corporation and Subsidiaries Statement of
Operations Data (for years ending September 30) (in $ millions)
Source: Company 2004 Annual Report
Exhibit 5 Rayovac Corporation and Subsidiaries Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows (for years ending September 30) (in $
millions)
Rayovac’s ability to distribute its products to customers was
constrained to some extent by the emergence of large retailers that
controlled access to large numbers of consumers. Wal-Mart Stores,
Inc., alone accounted for 21 percent of Rayovac’s annual sales.
Other significant outlets were Home Depot, Lowe’s, and Target.
Rayovac also sold through discount channels such as “dollar stores.”
Acquisitions

Varta AG (Germany)
In 2002, Rayovac acquired the consumer battery business of Varta
AG of Germany for $258 million.7 Varta was the leading European-
based manufacturer of general batteries with 2001 revenues of $390
million. Prior to the acquisition, 73 percent of Rayovac’s revenues
came from North America while 86 percent of Varta’s revenues came
from Europe. The largest overlap was in Latin America where
combined operations solidified Rayovac’s market lead, excluding
Brazil. The acquisition allowed the two companies to consolidate
production and distribution in Latin America and to close redundant
manufacturing plants.


The complementary geographic distribution of the two companies’
production facilities and distribution channels was expected to give
greater access to global sourcing and distribution opportunities and
generate cost savings of between $30 million and $40 million
through the consolidation of production plants and administration. As
a direct result of the Varta acquisition, Rayovac became the market
leader in consumer batteries in Germany and Austria and the second
leading producer in Europe.
ROV Ltd. and Microlite (Latin
America)
Rayovac was the leading producer of zinc carbon batteries in Latin
America, a region where the company enjoyed strong brand
recognition. However, Latin America was plagued by frequent
economic downturns, and consumers had relatively low purchasing
power. Despite the region’s volatility, Latin America played an
important role in the company’s geographic diversification strategy.

In the late 1990s, Latin America was one of Rayovac’s fastest
growing markets, where it had distribution agreements with Ahold,
Woolworths, Makro, and several other large supermarket and box-
store chains. A large part of the company’s growth came from its
1999 acquisition of Miami-based ROV Limited for $155 million. ROV,
which was spun off from Rayovac in 1982, was Rayovac’s largest
distributor of batteries in Latin America, with approximately $100
million in revenues, compared to Rayovac’s regional preacquisition
revenues of less than $20 million.


However, shortly after the ROV Limited acquisition, Latin America
sales took a turn for the worse. All three major manufacturers saw
declines of approximately 30 percent. Rayovac also saw delinquent
accounts increase to nearly $5 million, which Rayovac attempted to
mitigate by withholding future product shipments. As a result,
Rayovac decreased receivables for Latin America from $50 million to
$41 million. Fixed costs were also reduced by $12 million, including
process rationalization and a reduction in staff by 120 people.


In 2004, the company was able to offset this decline through its
acquisition of Microlite S.A., the largest producer of consumer
batteries in Brazil and owner of the Rayovac brand name in Brazil,
for $38 million.8 The Microlite acquisition allowed Rayovac to
immediately realize a 50 percent market share in Latin America’s
largest consumer market.9 Rayovac replaced Microlite’s
management team with Rayovac veterans who proceeded to reduce
costs, increase efficiency, and improve product packaging. The latter
allowed Rayovac to increase prices by 16 percent. Regional
competitors, following Rayovac’s lead, also raised prices.


When Rayovac acquired Microlite, the business was
undercapitalized and losing money. Its precarious situation made it a
high risk for lenders who, in turn, charged very high interest rates.
Rayovac immediately proceeded to recapitalize the business and to
replace high-rate debt with Rayovac-backed debentures. The
reduction in interest payments immediately improved the acquired
company’s financial results. According to Chief Executive Officer
David A. Jones, the results exceeded company expectations.

  We were frankly surprised by how fast the actions took hold. It didn’t surprise us that we
  were going to make it profitable. I think in the future it’s going to be a star performer. Our
  numerical distribution is high because of the dominance of the brand in the
  marketplace.10
As a result of the Microlite acquisition, Rayovac expected to increase
total Latin American revenues by approximately 50 percent in 2005.
China
In the same year that Rayovac acquired Microlite, the company
acquired 85 percent of Ningbo Baowang for $24 million. Located in
Ninghai, China, Ningbo Baowang was a major exporter of private
label branded batteries with annual revenues of $6.4 million. The
company also sold its own Baowang brand throughout China.


By acquiring a Chinese manufacturer, Rayovac hoped to both
increase its presence in the rapidly growing Asia market and to add
a low-cost manufacturing subsidiary from which to export Rayovac
and Varta branded batteries to its global markets. Rayovac replaced
Ningbo Baowang’s existing management with its own company
managers in order to implement Rayovac process controls and
management policies more efficiently. It also installed new
manufacturing equipment that would allow it to produce one billion
Rayovac branded batteries a year beginning in 2005.11 Explained
Jones:

  China is going to be the growth vehicle for all the alkaline capacity needs in the future.
  We have a very large plant in Fennimore; we have a very large plant in Dischingen in
  Germany (see Exhibit 6       ). Those plants are running near capacity and so, as alkaline
  grows around the world, all the future capacity needs are going to come out of that
  China plant.12
Exhibit 6 Rayovac Corporation and Subsidiaries
Manufacturing and Distribution Centers 2004
Remington Products Company
In 2003, Rayovac diversified its product offering by acquiring
Remington Products for $322 million.13 Remington was established
in 1816 and was recognized as one of America’s oldest consumer
brands. The company focused on personal care products but was
best known for its electric shavers. In this category, Remington was
the No. 2 brand in North America with 35 percent market share,
compared with 40 percent for Norelco and less than 20 percent for
Braun. Other “personal grooming” products included hair dryers,
curling irons and hot air brushes. In the four years leading up to its
acquisition, Remington experienced a compound annual growth rate
in excess of 10 percent.


In 2003, global sales of electric shaving and grooming products were
around $3 billion, growing at about three percent annually. The
global market for other electric personal case products, such as hair
dryers, curling irons, hot air brushes and lighted mirrors, was
estimated at $2 billion, with annual unit sales growth also at three
percent.


Remington was considered a low-cost producer with capital
expenditures of approximately one percent of revenues. Production
was mainly outsourced to low-cost Far East suppliers, particularly in
mainland China. Therefore, any synergies between the two
companies would be limited to administration, purchasing, and
distribution, with estimated annual savings of approximately $23
million. Rayovac also planned to use its established international
distribution network to expand the presence of Remington products
outside North America, which accounted for 64 percent of that
company’s sales in 2002. The Varta distribution network in particular
would be used to increase the presence of Remington products in
Europe. According to Jones:

  In 1996, we were selling our products in 36,000 stores principally the United States. We
  are now selling in over a million stores. Remington is selling in 20,000 stores in the
  Unieted States. There are a lot more in the United States. and a lot of retailers around
  the world that we currently do business with. We think some of the Remington product
  line is applicable, and we think because our sales organizations are on the ground and
  have strong relationships with retailers, we could build the Remington brand name
  globally.


  Remington represents a very logical diversification for Rayovac due to its product
  offerings, brand positioning and customer similarities, and represents the first step of
  hopefully several other diversification moves over the next few years as we build
  Rayovac into a much larger, more diversified consumer products company.14


Integrating Remington into Rayovac involved closing several
Remington manufacturing and distribution facilities, integrating all
functional departments of the two companies and absorbing
Remington’s worldwide operations into Rayovac’s existing North
American and European operations, thereby creating a global
organization and infrastructure. This included merging sales
management, marketing, and field sales of the two companies into a
single North American sales and marketing organization. Similarly,
research and development (R&A) would be merged into Rayovac’s
research facility at the company’s headquarters in Wisconsin. From
a total of 20 plants in 1996, Rayovac reduced its plants to nine by
the end of 2004 while still quadrupling sales and unit volume. The
number of suppliers was reduced to 40 percent of 1996 levels, while
average procurement per supplier rose tenfold. Remington also
focused on matching the product performance of its two major rivals,
Braun and Norelco, in terms of consumer attributes, features,
functionality, and overall quality.

Following these acquisitions, Rayovac products were sold by 19 of
the world’s top 20 retailers and were available in over one million
stores in 120 countries. Company revenues increased to
approximately $1.5 billion, and employees numbered more than
6,500 worldwide. The company also realized annual cost savings of
more than three percent of cost of goods sold.
Lawn and Garden Care,
Insecticides and Pet Supplies
In 2005, Rayovac announced its intention to acquire two pet supply
companies for more than $2 billion and to change its name to
Spectrum Brands. The first of these acquisitions was United
Industries Corporation, which Rayovac acquired for $1.5 billion,
funded with cash payments of $1 billion, stock issued from Treasury
totalling $439 million with acquisition related expenses, and
assumed debt totalling $36 million. To fund the acquisition, Rayovac
issued $1.03 billion in new long-term debt.15
United Industries
United Industries was the leading North American producer of
consumer lawn and garden care products, household insect control
products and specialty pet supplies. The company had about 24
percent market share in lawn products, such as fertilizers and
pesticides, which it sold under the brand name Spectrum. In insect
control (mosquito repellents), it had an 18 percent market share.
Retails sales of household insect control products in the United
States was approximately $1 billion in 2003, growing at four percent
a year, with sales likely to increase as public awareness increased of
insect-borne diseases such as the West Nile virus.


The U.S. pet supplies market was estimated at $8 billion in 2004,
while the European market was about $4 billion. Annual growth in
the pet supplies category was between six percent and eight
percent. With increased incomes, more households were likely to
have pets and to treat them as household members, spending
increasing amounts on feeding and care. The U.S. pet supplies
industry was highly fragmented, with over 500 manufacturers,
primarily small firms. The industry was not significantly affected by
business cycles. The rise of pet superstores, such as Petco and Pet
Smart, provided a competitive opportunity for larger companies, such
as Rayovac, with strong distribution channels.


The lawn and garden segment also enjoyed favorable demographic
trends. People over age 45 were more likely to pursue gardening
compared to the general population, a group whose cohort was
increasing as the North American, European, and Japanese
populations increased in average age. About 80 percent of U.S.
households participated in some form of lawn and garden activity. In
2003, North American industry revenues were approximately $3.2
billion, growing at approximately four percent annually. Lawn and
garden care product sales, as well as insecticide sales, were
seasonal. Garden product sales typically fell off when the weather
was wet and cold.16


The Scotts Miracle-Gro Company was the largest producer of home
gardening supplies, with annual net sales of $2 billion. Scotts led the
market in almost every product category and every region in which it
conducted business. Its major brands included Scotts, Miracle-Gro,
and Ortho fertilizers and herbicides. It was also the sole distributor in
the home gardening segment for Monsanto’s Roundup brand
herbicides.17


Central Garden and Pet Company was a distant third, with $1.2
billion in annual revenues. Central Garden’s pet products included
pet food, aquarium products, pest control products, cages, pet
books, and other small animal products. Lawn and garden products
included grass seed, wild bird food, herbicides, insecticides, and
outdoor patio furniture. The company’s products were sold under
more than 16 different brand names.18


United itself had just completed two significant acquisitions in 2004
as it expanded geographically and diversified away from its roots in
pesticides. In 2004, it entered the pet supply business with its
acquisition of United Pet Group, Inc. (UPG) for $360 million. UPG
derived approximately half its sales from aquarium supplies, while
the remainder consisted of a variety of supplies for small household
pets, excluding pet food. As United was still in the process of
integrating UPG when it was acquired by Rayovac, Jones expected
its integration to be considerably more complicated than previous
acquisitions, taking up to three years to complete (compared to less
than one year for Remington and Varta). Nevertheless, Jones
reasoned that any company that sold its products through major
retail chains, such as Wal-Mart, was a fair acquisition target. He
explained:

  As a larger and more significant supplier of consumer products, we believe the
  postacquisition Rayovac will enjoy stronger relationships with our most important global
  retailer customers. For instance, United does a substantial business with Wal-Mart,
  Home Depot, and Lowe’s, all of whom are important relationships for Rayovac today
  and all of whom will become even more significant.19


Many of the cost savings associated with the integration of United
Industries were expected in marketing and distribution, as existing
networks increased cross-selling to department store customers.
Other savings were expected in administration and purchasing.20
According to Rayovac Chief Operating Officer Kent Hussey, his
company’s strong presence in Asia and Europe provided it with more
sophisticated sourcing and distribution opportunities than those
available to United, which had a limited presence outside of North
America. Hussey explained:
  Rayovac operates on a global scale. From a purchasing perspective, significant
  sourcing capabilities exist in the Far East. I think, with our experience and our
  infrastructure, we can accelerate dramatically, purchasing leverage and sourcing in the
  Far East. And then finally, in manufacturing in distribution, we can use our expertise very
  quickly to help rationalize, eliminate redundancies and improve the efficiency of the
  overall supply chain. It really is very much operationally driven. There are clearly some
  administrative synergies here in IT and finance and administration, but the bulk of this is
  really operationally focused.21


Jones added that Rayovac also planned to use its global network to
expand United Industries’ distribution beyond North America.

  While United is a North American business now, that is not to say it will be only a North
  American business in the future. Our European teams are actively looking at the
  categories that United participates in and looking at where we can potentially expand
  there or in Latin America by taking advantage of obvious distribution opportunities and
  customer relationships that we have in regions other than North America.22


Rayovac further argued that industry consolidation in pet supplies
was needed, “in order to meet the requirements of global retailers.”
According to Jones, pet supplies was the fastest growing retail
category but one that was highly fragmented. Rayovac intended to
increase its participation by further acquiring and consolidating pet
supply companies. “We think we can actually accelerate
consolidation,” he noted. “Pet is going to be a major growth platform
and opportunity for further acquisitions.” 23


United’s 2004 revenues of around $950 million came mainly from
major chains, such as Home Depot, Lowe’s, Wal-Mart, Petco, and
PetSmart. Through increased sales and cost savings, Rayovac
anticipated “gross synergies” of between $70 million and $75 million
over the first three years. Boston-based private equity firm Thomas
Lee Partners, which had acquired United in 1999, would end up with
nearly 25 percent ownership in Rayovac, as well as two seats on
Rayovac’s 10-member board of directors. Thomas H. Lee Partners
had previously invested in Rayovac in 1995, and helped take it
public in 1997. In addition, David Jones, Rayovac chairman and
CEO, had served on United’s board between 1999 and 2003. THL
acquired significant stakes in growth companies, and at the time of
the United acquisition, managed over $12 billion of committed
capital. Some of its major deals include Warner Music, Houghton
Mifflin Co., Snapple Beverage, and Fisher Scientific.
Tetra Holdings
Rayovac’s interest in pet supplies was further realized with the
acquisition of Tetra Holdings of Germany less than two months after
the United deal for $555 million (see Exhibit 7   ), of which $500
million was financed with long-term debt (Table 1 summarizes
Rayovac debt as of July 2005, following the United and Tetra
acquisitions).24 Tetra was founded in 1955 by Dr. Ulrich Baensch, the
inventor of flaked fish food. The company supplied pet fish and
reptile products in 90 countries and had annual sales of $233 million
in 2004 (compared to $179 million in 2001). Tetra was purchased by
Warner-Lambert in 1974 and was later spun off when Warner
Lambert was acquired by Pfizer in 2000, and Pfizer decided to shed,
“poorer performing consumer brands.”25 Jones justified his
company’s latest acquisition by noting:
Exhibit 7 Pre and Post 2005 Acquisitions Consolidated
Balance Sheets (in $ millions)
Table 1 Rayovac Debt (as of July 2005)

  The combination of Tetra with United Pet Group means Rayovac will become the world’s
  largest manufacturer of pet supplies, a position with which we can leverage our
  company’s worldwide operations.


Commenting on the Tetra acquisition, Kent Hussey remarked:

  Tetra is a globally recognized brand name in the pet supplies category, one that
  consumers know and trust. It gives us entry into the pet supplies category literally
  around the world, and it’s a brand that virtually every pet supply retailer considers a
  must-have brand in terms of consumer loyalty. If the retailer doesn’t have that product
  on the shelf, he is missing significant sales opportunities. That makes Tetra a very
  attractive asset for us.”26


Throughout its history, Rayovac had been primarily a battery
company. After the Tetra and United acquisitions, for the first time in
its history, Rayovac’s battery division accounted for only slightly
more than a third of total sales, significantly less than the combined
sales for lawn, garden and pet care products (see Table 2 and
Exhibit 8 ). Furthermore, with the United and Tetra acquisitions,
more than a third of total sales came from international sources.
Tetra, for example, obtained 40 percent of its sales from Europe, 40
percent from the United States, and 20 percent from Japan.
Correspondingly, the company incurred a third of its total operating
expenses in foreign currencies.

Table 2 Rayovac: Percentage of Sales from Major Product Lines
Exhibit 8 Rayovac And Its Competitors, Percentage of Market
Share by Major Product Line (as of 2005)

Investment analyst Alyce Lomax described Rayovac’s move into pet
supplies as “diworseification,”27 a term that described, “companies
that lose their primary focus in their quest to jumpstart growth
through diversification.”28 Even so, most analysts hailed the deal,
while investors sent the company’s stock up nearly 10 percent
immediately following the announcement. Overall, the company’s
stock had risen from about $15 to around $45 in the two years since
its acquisition of Remington (see Exhibit 9 ).
Exhibit 9 Rayovac Corporation Stock Chart
Note: The chart includes data up to and including the announced
acquisition of Tetra Holdings on March 15, 2005.
End Notes
1    This case has been written on the basis of published sources only. Consequently, the
interpretation and perspectives presented in this case are not necessarily those of Rayovac
Corporation or any of its employees.
2    Rayovac Buys Pet Supplies Company, Reuters, March 15, 2005.
3    Portions adapted from Rayovac Corporation, Prospectus Supplement, June 20, 2001.
4    “Rayovac to Acquire Remington Products,” Company Conference Call, Fair Disclosure
Wire, August 22, 2003.
5    Transcript “In The Game,” CNNfn, March 9, 1999.
6    SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Conference, Interview with Kent Hussey, Rayovac
Corporation, Wall Street Transcript, April 2005.
7    The acquisition did not include Microlite, SA, a Brazilian joint venture that Rayovac
acquired separately in 2004. It also excluded Varta’s automotive and micro-power divisions.
8    “Rayovac Gains Worldwide Rights to Brand Name, ” Atlanta Business Chronicle, June
1, 2004.
9    Brazil represented 30 percent of total Latin American market for consumer goods.
10    “Event Brief of Q1 2005 Rayovac Earnings, ” Conference Call, Fair Disclosure Wire,
January 25, 2005.
11    “Rayovac to Acquire 85% of Ningbo Baowang China Battery Company, ” PR ‐
Newswire, January 19, 2004.
12    Ibid.
13    The purchase price represented 6.9 times Remington’s 2002 EBITDA of $47 million.
14    “Rayovac to Acquire Remington Products, ” Company Conference Call, Fair
Disclosure Wire, August 22, 2003.
15    “Rayovac Taps BofA, Citigroup For Add-On To Back Tetra Buy, ” Bank Loan Report,
April 4, 2005.
16    Seasonality also affected Rayovac’s other products, such as batteries and electric
shavers, sales of which surged during the holiday season (quarter ending December 31).
17    Background information on Scotts Miracle-Gro Company was adapted from the
company’s investor relations website, investor.scotts.com, August 30, 2005.
18    Background information on Central Garden and Pet Company was adapted from the
company’s investor relations website, www.centralgardenandpet.com, August 30, 2005.
19    “Rayovac Acquisition Update,” Fair Disclosure Wire, January 4, 2005.
20    Rayovac anticipated $75 million in cost savings during the first three years.
21    “Rayovac Acquisition Update,” Fair Disclosure Wire, January 4, 2005.
22    Ibid.
23    Ibid.
24    “Rayovac Taps BofA, Citigroup For Add-On To Back Tetra Buy,” Bank Loan Report,
April 4, 2005.
25    “Tetra Under The Hammer?” UK Pets, December 17, 2001.
26    Rayovac Corporation, The Wall Street Transcript, April 2005.
27    “Will Pets Juice Rayovac?” Motley Fool, March 16, 2005.
28    “Diworseification” was first coined by mutual fund manager Peter Lynch in his book
“One Up On Wall Street : How To Use What You Already Know To Make Money In The
Market” (Simon & Schuster; 2000).
Case 3–4: Aegis Analytical
Corporation’s Strategic Alliances
Paul Olk


Joan Winn
            —University of Denver
As Gretchen Jahn, cofounder and executive vice
president of Corporate Development of Aegis
Analytical Corporation, looked over the financial
statements for the first half of 2003, she tried to
muster the enthusiasm she had had the
previous spring when Aegis entered into
alliances with two leading pharmaceutical
manufacturing distributors. Jahn had expected
that the increased visibility in the market would
buoy Aegis’s lagging sales. Meanwhile, Justin
Neway, cofounder of the company, carefully
prepared a presentation to potential investors,
as they both knew that this round of funding was
needed to support Aegis’s growth plan and
achieve positive cash flow in late 2004.

Gretchen L. Jahn and Justin O. Neway formed
Aegis Analytical Corporation in 1995 to provide
process manufacturing software and consulting
services to pharmaceutical and biotech
manufacturers. The product, called
“Discoverant,” helped managers see what was
happening during the manufacturing process. It
allowed users to connect to multiple databases
simultaneously—including electronic data
formats and manual inputs taken from paper
records—and assemble the data. The user
could then develop models to evaluate the
performance of specific manufacturing
processes. The product greatly reduced the time
and effort needed to identify problems in a
company’s manufacturing processes.

In March 2002, Aegis formed an alliance with
Honeywell POMS that made POMS a reseller of
the Aegis Discoverant product. As an add-on
product to the POMS software that monitored
manufacturing plant activities, Honeywell agreed
to sell the product under the name “POMS
Explorer, powered by Aegis.” Jahn and Neway
believed that combining the products would
enhance the sales of each, and that Honeywell’s
name recognition in the pharmaceutical market
would help Aegis gain credibility and visibility.

Later that spring, Aegis entered into an
agreement with Rockwell Automation to market
Aegis’s Discoverant with Rockwell’s ProPack
Data manufacturing software, designed to help
companies monitor production operations.
Again, because a customer could use the
ProPack Data system with Discoverant, both
companies hoped the collaboration would
increase the sales of each product.
Neither relationship had yet produced a single
sale, and Aegis began questioning the wisdom
of this strategy. Strategic alliances were integral
to the company’s sales efforts, and after Jahn
reflected upon the disappointments of the past
year, she and Neway debated what actions the
much smaller Aegis should take to improve
these alliances with the larger companies.

The authors wish to thank Gretchen Jahn, Justin
Neway, and the employees of the Aegis
Analytical Corporation for their cooperation in
the preparation of this case. The authors also
thank Chooch Jewel and Brian Swenson for
research assistance and insights. This case is
intended to stimulate class discussion rather
than to illustrate the effective or ineffective
handling of a managerial situation. All events
and individuals in this case are real.

Copyright © 2005 by the Case Research Journal
and by Paul Olk and Joan Winn.
History of Aegis Analytical
In 1995, Gretchen Jahn and Justin Neway cofounded Aegis
Analytical Corporation in Lafayette, Colorado. Jahn had 20 years of
experience in information technology and integrated resources
management prior to starting Aegis. She had recently sold her
software consulting company and was working as an independent
information technology and management consultant. Neway, a
biochemist, had 20 years of experience in pharmaceutical and
biotechnology manufacturing. He had moved to Colorado from
California in 1990 and taken a job as director of manufacturing for
Somatogen, a biotech research company. (Exhibit 1 shows
management team profiles.) Both had worked closely with the
regulatory, quality-control, and operational issues that plagued
pharmaceutical manufacturing processes.
Exhibit 1 Aegis Management Team, 2003
Gretchen L. Jahn, Cofounder, Executive Vice President, Corporate
Development, has over 20 years’ experience in IT. Ms. Jahn most
recently led the turnaround of the software development of a CEO-
less venture-backed start-up company. Previously, Ms. Jahn was a
principal and vice president at Mile-High Information Services, a
consulting, software development, and product sales company. She
has prior experience as a data processing manager and a software
specialist for Digital Equipment Corporation. Ms. Jahn received her
BA in 1973 from Lawrence University and her MA in 1975 from the
University of Colorado.


Justin O. Neway, Ph.D., Cofounder, Executive Vice President, and
Chief Science Officer, has over 19 years of experience in
pharmaceutical and biotechnology manufacturing, and in software
marketing and applications. Prior to joining Aegis, Dr. Neway was
director of fermentation R&D at Somatogen, a biotechnology
manufacturer. He was the project leader for several technical teams,
one of which developed a demonstration system for data analysis
and visualization of batch process information. Dr. Neway received
his B.Sc. (microbiology, 1975) and M.Sc. (biochemistry, 1977) from
the University of Calgary, and his Ph.D. in biochemistry from the
University of Illinois in 1982.


John M. Darcy, President and CEO, has over 25 years in proven
management and leadership in Fortune 50 companies, turnarounds,
and start-ups. Mr. Darcy has been an advisor to Aegis, and is
providing significant marketing assistance for the Discoverant
product launch as director of marketing. Most recently he built three
separate start-up companies in the food, agricultural chemicals, and
Web imaging businesses. Prior to this, Mr. Darcy was president and
chief operating officer at Avis Enterprises, a $2B private investment
company with majority equity positions in several industries including
automobile rentals and dealerships, and has held management
positions at Carnation/Nestlé and Pillsbury. Mr. Darcy received his
BA in 1967 and his MA in 1969 from the University of California, Los
Angeles.


Geri L. Studebaker, Vice President, Marketing, has over 12 years of
experience in software marketing and applications. Prior to Aegis,
Ms. Studebaker was senior director of worldwide marketing for Webb
Interactive, an e-business software provider for small to medium-size
business. There she successfully managed overall product redesign
and company positioning efforts. Prior to Webb, Ms. Studebaker held
several positions with JD Edwarc’s, the most recent being senior
marketing manager.


Cheryl M. Boeckman, Vice President, Sales, has over 17 years of
experience in executive-level sales. Ms. Boeckman was vice
president of sales with SoftBrands Manufacturing/Fourth Shift, where
she managed a team selling enterprise resource planning and
supply chain management software to tier-one through tier-three
manufacturing companies focusing on multiple industries including
medical device and pharmaceuticals.
Steve C. Sills, Director, Business Development, has over 10 years of
experience in software marketing and business development. Mr.
Sills joins Aegis with a broad range of experience in the software
industry. Prior to joining Aegis, he was a business development
manager with Vitria Technology, a leading enterprise application
integration (EAI) vendor.
Finding Development Partners
Jahn, a self-described “serial entrepreneur,” had started two
companies before Aegis. She had experience with software
development and implementation, and understood the importance of
manufacturing efficiencies and process improvements in getting
drugs through the regulatory process. Neway’s experiences in
biotech and pharmaceutical manufacturing gave him an in-depth
understanding of the difficulties in accessing data from a variety of
sources and across many different products and then putting them
into a unified format. Originally, Jahn and Neway had hoped to use
Somatogen’s name as a launching pad for their product. However,
when Somatogen began negotiations for its eventual sale to the
pharmaceutical company Baxter, they recognized they would need to
find an alternative. Neway focused his efforts on courting potential
development partners. Jahn recalled,
We spent several years working out of our respective basements, using our own funds
to make invited technical presentations. We made 23 presentations in the United States
and Europe to major pharmaceutical companies to demonstrate our product and to get
feedback to improve the product and also to see if we could find someone who would be
an initial development partner. Eventually Aventis gave us a contract worth $1.3 million
to jointly develop our software product with them. This was in 1999. In May and July of
1999, we received our first funding—seed investments of $400,000 and $500,000—from
angel investors and Sandlot Capital. We were three people at that time.


So we built this first version and we got office space and then graduated to other office
space once we were all sitting on top of each other. And we hired people and
subcontracted all kinds of nifty stuff and then we went out for the next round of funding.
We closed on that in 2000—right around 4½ million—from GlaxoSmithKline’s
investment arm, SR One, and Aventis’s investment arm, Future Capital, which is in
Frankfurt, Germany, as well as Viscardi Ventures, a financial investment firm in Munich,
Germany.
Growing the Organization
Aegis had been successful in getting enough financing to develop
and test its manufacturing software product, set up a team of
applications and technical specialists, a management team, and an
advisory board of industry and regulatory experts. It had organized
research seminars and conferences with leaders in biotech research
and application, and successfully sold and implemented its first
product in July 2000. Jahn continued,

  Our next funding in 2001 just about destroyed me. We brought in $14.5 million in
  October 2001, after the bubble had burst. What’s funny is that Aegis is not a dot-com.
  So during the boom we were discounted because we weren’t a dot-com. After the boom,
  we were discounted because every software company was. The Friday before
  September 11 (2001), I turned down $4 million because our valuation was so low. Then
  September 11th happened. We were supposed to have a board meeting on the 14th
  over in Munich, which we ended up having over the phone, and I said, “Look guys, we
  don’t know what is going to happen . . . we just better get through this.” We were one of
  the few people whose funding got bigger. Everybody else that I talked to that was raising
  money at that time had their investors dry up and go away.


By 2002, the company had grown to 35 employees. Aegis had
entered into sales agreements with eight corporate customers and
had 25 sales in the pipeline by the end of that year. Exhibit 2
reports Aegis’s financial performance over the last several years.
Also in 2002, Jahn hired John M. Darcy, former Avis CEO, as
president and CEO to reposition the company with a sales and
marketing focus rather than a development focus. Jahn moved into a
corporate development role to pursue new markets for the product,
and develop alliances and market awareness. Because of its small
size, Aegis was able to share information within the organization
quickly and did not need to spend a lot of time making decisions.
Aegis also prided itself on having an organization that emphasized
precision in its work as well as honesty and integrity when dealing
with others. Management believed that understanding and concern
for customers would be a key to Aegis’s success.
Exhibit 2 Five-Year Financial Performance, 1998–2003a
Source: Aegis Analytical Corporation documents, 2003.
a
    Some figures may be disguised.

b
    Furniture and Equipment is net of depreciation.

c
    Other Assets includes trademarks and patent costs, capitalized
software development costs, and Web site development.
The Discoverant Product
Aegis positioned Discoverant as a manufacturing performance
management software system that fulfilled three critical
requirements: practical data access, useful data analysis, and ability
to communicate results to nonexperts.


Aegis’s Discoverant enabled manufacturing employees and
managers to analyze specific manufacturing processes that crossed
database boundaries. Exhibit 3 shows the relationship of
Discoverant to disparate data sources and to analysis and results
reporting. The software did not require that every piece of corporate
data be stored and controlled in a single location. In developing
Discoverant, Aegis’s developers had incorporated existing software
engines, both as a cost savings and implementation aid, building
only those parts of the product that were needed to fill the gap and
integrate the various systems. Jahn and Neway explained that
companies without Aegis’s product would have to go through a lot of
time and effort to get the same information. Without Discoverant, it
was common for a company’s information technology (IT)
department to spend two to four weeks to get appropriate data from
multiple systems. After company employees collected the data, it
would take them another week to interpret and analyze the data.
Discoverant took minutes to perform the same steps. The cost
savings became significant when a company that manufactured a
defective product or ran invalid experiments searched for the errors
in the manufacturing process.




Exhibit 3 The Discoverant Connectivity Link Between Disparate
Data Sources and Reports
Source: Adapted from Aegis material.




The company emphasized Discoverant’s ability to “easily access
millions of data values from diverse sources, drill down on any
operation, make informed proactive decisions by identifying critical
process parameters, and enable manufacturing enterprise
compliance strategies.” A simple point-and-click feature allowed the
user to select the relevant data and produce desired statistical
analyses, charts, or graphs. A major advantage was the fact that the
person running the analyses and reports did not have to have a
programming background. Aegis would help the company install the
system and develop the data models. Aegis’s implementation
process required staff from the client company to be active
participants. Aegis provided a two-day user-training session for its
customers so that they understood the product’s basic functions and
tools, and how to use it to evaluate the various manufacturing
systems. This included a basic course on statistics so
nonstatisticians could use the software. Postimplementation
customer support was provided via phone, fax, e-mail, and Internet.
Aegis wanted to make sure that everyone in the company who used
the software had a complete understanding of Discoverant.


Aegis also offered additional consulting services, including follow-up,
validation, and advanced technical and user training. These services
were offered to companies who needed more assistance or wanted
additional advice for improving their manufacturing systems.
Sales Efforts
The keys to selling such a sophisticated product were having a
simple way to communicate the benefits of the product, a
knowledgeable sales force, and skilled consultants to implement the
software for the client. Neway understood that his audience—
research scientists who used mathematics and statistics but were
not programmers themselves—needed an image of the numeric
processes. He worked to put together a visual representation that
showed the manufacturing data in a three-dimensional image. This
eventually became Aegis’s “visual process signature” used for both
sales presentations and actual data tracking.


To help convey the Discoverant product, Aegis developed a short
video clip based on a case study. Aegis management made the
video available to potential customers via a CD-ROM and posted it
on the company’s Web site. The scenario depicted a manager
preparing for a meeting the next day where she would need to
explain to her superiors why there were batch failures in a drug’s
tablet dissolution rate. Even though she had all the data she had
requested on the manufacturing processes, she did not have weeks
to analyze the data and expected than she would have to spend
more time collecting additional data. What she needed was
immediate access to all of the company’s manufacturing data and a
program that would help with the analysis. A colleague introduces
her to Discoverant. With this program, she has direct access to the
raw data stored in the various databases (e.g., Laboratory
Information Management Systems [LIMS], enterprise resource
planning [ERP]) and can begin analyzing the manufacturing
conditions associated with the batch failures. Discoverant revealed
that the failures appeared to be related to the drying process—
particularly, to lower dryer air temperature. Through Discoverant’s
statistical tools, she is able to analyze the relationship and reveal
that it is highly significant. Discoverant’s reporting tools—including
the visual process signature—then enable her to illustrate the
relationship between temperature variations and batch variations.
Within minutes she has her answer and feels very prepared for the
next day’s meeting.


Beyond these promotional efforts, Aegis set up sales teams to
provide long-term consultative relationships that would help
customize the product for each customer. A sales account manager
led a specialized team of applications and technical specialists
organized for each sales and market effort and was responsible for
the relationship with each customer. Full installation and
implementation of the product was expected to take between six and
nine months. The standard purchase cycle for enterprise software
within the pharmaceutical industry started with an evaluation in one
facility or production line followed by expansion to other facilities on
a global scale. A contract often was negotiated for the full expansion
up front in the purchase process. Specific sites were identified and a
timeline established. This enabled Aegis to understand the total
potential value of a customer at the time of initial phase.
The sales cycle itself varied from seven months to more than two
years. The delay was due to the multiple sales cycles involved in
selling the product. In its initial efforts, Aegis sales teams quickly
found that there were really three selling cycles, each requiring
multiple visits. Aegis thought it would only have to make the first
sale, to the individuals in the company who would actually use the
product. The sales team typically started with the head of
manufacturing but also spoke with the head of quality and process
scientists. Although this effort often took from three to nine months,
the product was generally well received, particularly by the IT
departments, because it eliminated their having to write numerous
queries. After getting commitment by these users, however, Aegis
discovered two more cycles. First, Aegis had to help convince upper
management to purchase the software. Aegis found that upper
management would spend as much time conducting due diligence
on the decision to spend an estimated $0.5 to $1.5 million on
Discoverant as they would on a $15 million software installation. This
cycle typically took between three months and a year. After getting
approval from upper management, Aegis would then have to work
with the company’s purchasing and legal department to complete the
sale, which could take another one to six months. This lengthy three-
tier sales cycle process increased the amount of time and effort
required by Aegis’s sales team.


Aegis planned to set up direct sales teams in key geographic areas
where there were high concentrations of potential customers. Aegis
had already set up a team in Frankfurt, Germany, to provide sales
and marketing support for the European market. In geographic areas
of lower customer concentration, Aegis planned to use sales agents
and alliances to leverage the direct sales force and to provide local
coverage and first-line support. Strategic partners would help expand
sales and implementation capabilities.
Demand for Manufacturing
Process Software in the
Pharmaceutical Industry
To succeed in a global context, pharmaceutical companies
continually needed to reduce costs while increasing efficiency,
responsiveness, and customer satisfaction. Improving profitability in
the manufacturing process depended on reducing the cost of raw
materials, energy, and capital, and on increasing the yield from their
assets. Profitability also depended upon demonstrating that they
could meet quality standards in producing the drug. To meet such
regulations, manufacturers made significant investments in software
systems to collect information that revealed where, if any,
manufacturing problems existed and, after correcting the problems,
demonstrated compliance to the regulators. Initially, production
processes were automated through distributed control systems
(DCS) that used hardware, software, and industrial instruments to
measure, record, and automatically control process variables. More
recently, process manufacturers had begun to automate key
business processes by implementing ERP and manufacturing
execution system (MES) software solutions to enhance the flow of
business information across the enterprise, as well as other software
programs such as LIMS (Exhibit 3 ).
The implementation of each of these systems led to an accumulation
of large amounts of raw data that recorded in detail the performance
of each manufacturing process at full commercial scale over
extended periods of time. The proliferation of software products
resulted in companies having mountains of data scattered across
numerous disparate data sources. Collectively, these held a great
deal of information about how to improve manufacturing
performance. Prior to 2000, there was no simple way to access all
the data and extract the big picture about the manufacturing process.
Aegis wanted to become the recognized leader in process
manufacturing technology by providing software that could be used
to integrate all major functions and provide system-wide information.


The demand for Aegis’s product was not driven solely by
pharmaceutical companies’ interest in reducing costs. Increasing
pressure from consumer groups and the federal government’s Food
and Drug Administration (FDA) led Aegis to believe that this market
would be highly receptive to any product that shortened and
improved the product-to-market cycle time. In 2002 alone, the FDA
had issued 755 warning letters about product quality—an increase of
more than 40 percent from 1998. The FDA had also increased the
number and severity of penalties levied against pharmaceutical
manufacturers, including criminal convictions and fines as high as
$500 million.

Discoverant had no direct competitors. Other companies had
products that performed parts of what Discoverant did, but no one
besides Aegis had a product that did it all. In 2003, there were
several commercial vendors of general statistical and visualization
tools such as Mathsoft, Statistica, MatLab, IMSL, SAS, Visual
Numerics, and AVS. These tools permitted the analysis of already
collected data but did not help in accessing the various databases.
Other software companies, such as Aspen Technology, OSI, and
Lighthammer, provided process manufacturing software that
captured shop floor data for process control and data management,
but typically the data had to be inside a single database. These
products could not combine data from dissimilar databases. Finally,
Spotfire and Aspen Technology had recently announced an alliance
to develop data analysis capabilities for manufacturing systems, but
the product was not yet available. Although some large
pharmaceutical and food production companies had custom in-
house systems developed by internal IT departments or third-party
consultants, most companies’ systems were limited in use and
required a team of experts to interpret the disparate data that the
systems generated. Someone who was not a programmer could use
Discoverant.


Aegis had identified a number of pharmaceutical manufacturing
companies that would benefit by an integrated manufacturing
information system. Though many pharmaceutical manufacturing
companies in 2002 were quite small, with annual revenues under
$250 million, targeting only those pharmaceutical companies with
annual revenues over $250 million would give Aegis access to a
potential market of $604 million in license, service, and maintenance
fees. Pharmaceutical manufacturers with annual revenues in excess
of $1 billion had the largest IT budget and were therefore most likely
to implement manufacturing enterprise software solutions like
Discoverant. Importantly, companies of this size accounted for
approximately 77 percent, or $464 million, of the total potential
market for Aegis’s products (Exhibit 4 ).

Exhibit 4 Market Projections for 2003
Source: Aegis Analytical Corporation documents, 2003.

Note: The standard purchase cycle for enterprise software within the
pharmaceutical industry starts with an evaluation in one facility or
production line followed by expansion to other facilities on a global
scale. A contract often is negotiated for the full expansion up front in
the purchase process. Specific sites are identified and a timeline
established. Therefore, Aegis understands the total potential value of
a customer at the time of initial phase. Even under current (sluggish)
market conditions, Aegis believes that sales to new pharma
accounts can be expected to result in large total sales in the same
accounts in the next 18 to 24 months as the initial projects show
good results and decisions are made to proceed with wider
deployments.
Aegis’s Alliance Strategy
Jahn and Neway understood the power of brand recognition and
company reputation in reaching their target market. They developed
research partnerships with top-tier pharmaceutical manufacturing
companies such as Merck, Genentech, and Aventis and invited
representatives from Abbott, Amgen, Aventis, Merck, Novartis,
GlaxoSmithKline, Eli Lilly, Roche, and Wyeth to join discussions at
Aegis-hosted conferences in Colorado. Contacts at the University of
Newcastle and University College London, two of the top universities
in the world known for software technology applicable to
manufacturing processes, joined Aegis’s Scientific Advisory Board.
These relationships fostered an exchange of technical information
and ideas, and gave Aegis professional connections and sales
leads.


In their initial efforts to sell Discoverant, Neway and a small team of
sales and technical people made direct calls to large pharmaceutical
and biotech manufacturers. Believing that alliances with well-known
service providers would give them credibility and visibility in the
marketplace, and also permit them to reach more companies than
they could alone, Aegis’s growth strategy focused on finding
partners. Aegis’s first partners were client-investors, pharmaceutical
companies like Merck and GlaxoSmithKline in California and
Hoechst Marion Roussel in Kansas City. Having big company names
as successful users of Aegis’s Discoverant product provided
important testimonials for Discoverant’s features. This networking
helped form the research and technical partnerships that Aegis used
to get its first contracts and secure venture funding.

The focus in 2002 was on creating alliances that would enhance
sales. Although Aegis had made some sales of Discoverant, as top
managers began to understand that the three-part sales process
was the norm, they realized they did not have enough internal
resources. Their sales staff could continue to pursue direct sales, but
sales might benefit from partners who could help convince top
management to purchase Discoverant. These alliances were
considered an integral part of the sales force. In choosing sales
partners, then, Aegis sought out companies that had complementary
products and would agree to promote the Discoverant brand using
the Aegis name to distinguish it from perceived competition. While it
had started screening potential candidates, in 2002, Aegis was
approached by two companies that seemed to be the best
candidates with which to partner. In that year, Aegis formed a
relationship with Honeywell POMS and another with Rockwell
Automation.
Honeywell POMS Alliance
In 1999, Honeywell acquired the POMS Corporation, a leader in
providing manufacturing execution systems (MES) for the
pharmaceutical as well as for other industries. POMS had sold over
70 systems to nine of the top 10 pharmaceutical companies in the
world. POMS employed 150 people and was headquartered in
Herndon, Virginia. Prior to the acquisition, POMS was strictly a
reseller of software and, according to an Aegis manager, had a
spotty record of implementing and supporting its software offerings.

On March 13, 2002, Aegis formed an alliance with Honeywell POMS
that made it a reseller of the Aegis Discoverant product in
combination with POMS’s manufacturing system. Honeywell
approached Aegis after a potential customer asked if POMS was
compatible with Discoverant. This interest helped Aegis during
negotiations. Although Honeywell initially requested an exclusive
relationship, Aegis thought that it was not in the company’s best
interests. Eventually the two sides did come to an agreement that
Aegis’s product would be packaged and resold under the name
“POMS Explorer, powered by Aegis.” According to Chris Lyden, vice
president and general manager of Honeywell’s Industry Solutions
Business for Chemicals, Life Sciences, and Consumer Goods,
  By combining Aegis’s Discoverant with our the flagship POMS MES product, we will be
  able to provide added benefits to our customers and further enhance the way they
  manage their manufacturing systems. Honeywell’s new POMS Explorer module,
  powered by Aegis, can save significant cost for our customers by reducing batch
  failures, stabilizing the manufacturing operations, and getting products to market faster.


Both companies recognized the mutual benefits from the alliance.
Aegis believed this alliance was a significant step toward gaining
both credibility and visibility within the Life Sciences market. With
Honeywell, Aegis aligned itself with an organization that had $24
billion in sales, over 120,000 employees, and operations in 95
countries throughout the world.

Aegis was banking on POMS’s name recognition and reputation to
build market awareness for Aegis and Discoverant. Honeywell
POMS, located in the Automation and Control Solutions division, one
of four major strategic business units in Honeywell (besides
Aerospace, Specialty Materials and Transportation, and Power
Systems), viewed Discoverant as an additional software offering that
would expand the capability of its MES product. The Aegis software
provided POMS customers with the software needed to visually see
and analyze the manufacturing data. To help reach these
expectations, the two companies put together a relatively standard
contract that included the following:


   Honeywell POMS had a nonexclusive, nontransferable, non-
   sublicensable license to resell Aegis’s product.
   The agreement would initially run for two years with an additional
   1-year automatic renewal, unless either party wished to terminate
the agreement at least 90 days before the end of the 2-year
period.
Aegis and Honeywell POMS agreed to appoint one sales
professional to act as the primary representative to the other. The
agreement specified that the representatives shall meet in person
at least once per calendar quarter to discuss the status of the
sales effort and other questions about selling the software. These
meetings will alternate between Aegis’s and Honeywell POMS’s
facilities, unless both parties agree to talk telephonically or at
another location.
Aegis would provide training sessions for Honeywell POMS sales
personnel within 90 days of the start date of the contract.
Honeywell POMS was responsible for the point-of-contact sales
support for users. If Honeywell POMS was not able to solve the
problem, they would contact Aegis for support. Provisions were
provided for the time by which Aegis had to respond.
The parties agreed to prepare mutually agreed press releases to
promote the relationship. They also agreed to collaborate on
marketing events, on distributing promotional materials, and on
promotion of the other’s product on its Web sites.
Honeywell POMS would receive a discount on the licensing fees
Aegis charged. This was a reduced price on what Aegis would
charge Honeywell POMS to resell Discoverant. The more sales
Honeywell POMS recorded, the greater the discount.
Termination clauses permitted each party to end the relationship
if the other went out of business or if there was a breach of any
provisions within the agreement.
In considering the agreement, Jahn acknowledged that it had
provisions for Honeywell to “make sure that their sales reps would
get enough of a commission so that they would be motivated to sell it
and also that our sales reps would not be disadvantaged by selling
through our partner instead of selling direct . . . . There are lots of
ways of arranging [sales incentives plans] and we had lots of
conversation with Honeywell to determine what would work best in
this particular environment.” Aegis’s VP of sales also was involved in
making sure both sides were aware of the selling message and
pricing structures and were present at the training sessions. He had
numerous face-to-face meetings with his Honeywell counterparts to
discuss the product. They focused on building a relationship first and
did that successfully. Further, the Honeywell relationships benefited
from Jahn having personal contact with Honeywell’s director of
business development.

However, from her experience in larger companies, Jahn was
concerned about Honeywell’s commitment to promoting the
Discoverant product, and the VP of sales spent much of his time
convincing his counterparts of the value of this add-on product. “For
Honeywell, we’re a line item in their sales catalogue,” Jahn later
observed. “When the market fell out, their sales reps were
concentrating on how to get people to buy their own products, much
less other things in the catalogue.”
Rockwell Automation Agreement
Rockwell Automation purchased ProPack Data in April 2002.
ProPack Data, a German company established in 1984, was a
market leader of MES and electronic batch record systems (EBRS)
for the pharmaceutical and other regulated industries. The company
employed 230 people and became a part of Rockwell’s Process
Solutions business. Rockwell Automation had revenues of $4.3
billion, employed 23,000 individuals, and had operations in 80
different countries.

Aegis had been approached by ProPack—and had already begun
negotiations with them—before the Rockwell acquisition. The
ProPack Data manufacturing execution system PMX was designed
to help customers reduce operating costs, shorten cycle times, and
improve product quality in production operations. The software
solution provided by Aegis provided connectivity and visibility to the
manufacturing processes that PMX was managing.


As with the Honeywell alliance, the relationship with ProPack was
designed to make Aegis visible to much larger organizations. The
addition of Rockwell into the ProPack equation was a double-edged
sword for Aegis’s management team. On one hand they were
excited by the large size of Rockwell and the possibility to leverage
that size to their advantage. However, Jahn was concerned that
those advantages might be offset by increased bureaucracy and
added delays.

Aegis and ProPack Data set up a sales and marketing agreement for
lead generation that was simpler than the Honeywell POMS
agreement. If a company’s referral led to a sale for the partner, the
company would receive a finder’s fee. The agreement’s primary
function was to increase access to new sales territory. Aegis hoped
to increase the number of sales leads, thus generating a higher
number of sales opportunities. According to Bernhard Thurnbauer,
senior vice president of strategic marketing of ProPack Data,

  We are excited about this agreement with Aegis. We feel that this [arrangement] will
  give ProPack Data a significant edge in providing a true value added solution. Aegis’s
  Discoverant Manufacturing Informatics system meets the need of leading
  pharmaceutical manufacturers to analyze and visualize all their data in a multitude of
  disparate sources. Using Discoverant, manufacturers can find and control the key
  process drivers across their entire manufacturing processes, all the way from raw
  materials to final product.


Each company intended to use the partner’s strengths to build
interest in its own products and services and committed its sales
representatives to prospect for the partner. Once opportunities were
identified, various strategies would be employed to close the sale.
The sales opportunity itself would dictate how the two companies
would work together and who would take the dominant role in the
sales process. Each sale would be governed by a separate
agreement, which would include a finder’s fee for the partner that
developed the sale. Additional highlights of the agreement included:
The agreement committed both Aegis and Propack Data to
explore mutually beneficial ways in which they could complement
one another’s sales and marketing activities.
Both Aegis and Propack Data agreed this was an important
relationship and would seek to communicate ideas for improving
the relationship.
Each party would assign a person to act as the primary liaison to
the other party.
Each party would independently market its respective products
and services, but the two companies would prepare mutually
agreed press releases to promote the relationship, provide
marketing and sales support to each other, and spread the word
about the relationship within their respective organizations.
The liaisons were to attend quarterly meetings to discuss
comarketing of their products and customer leads. The location of
the meetings would alternate between Aegis and Propack Data
facilities.
Unless there was a sale, there would be no commissions or other
type of remuneration owed by one party to the other.
Upon request, each party agreed to provide on-site product
training to the other party’s employees up to once a year.
A separate agreement would be written up when both parties
decided to pursue jointly a product installation and
implementation.
The agreement could be terminated at any time without cause
with 90 days’ written notification.
Effectiveness of the Partnerships
When, by 2003, neither the Honeywell nor Rockwell relationship had
produced a single sale, Jahn began to question the value of these
alliances. With sales as the major focus in the alliances, and the
primary criterion for evaluating the success of the alliance, Jahn tried
to understand possible reasons for the lack of sales. It was easy to
blame lagging sales on the struggling economy. With the drug
manufacturing industry not experiencing consistent growth,
companies were not able to spend money on improving their
processes, upgrading software, or revamping production. Budgets
cuts and purchasing managers following orders to reduce expenses
led to a shrinking market. Unfortunately, the products that Aegis and
its alliance partners were selling fell into the category of items that
were not essential to current operations. In fact, Honeywell’s POMS
division, while having some success with other software products,
overall had low sales and had recently laid off 25 percent of its sales
force, including individuals with whom Aegis had worked. Aegis had
also lost some its original sales team. During lean times, the
companies that normally would be interested in purchasing Aegis
software solutions were looking internally to make incremental
improvements.


Another reason for the absence of sales might have been the
characteristics of the relationships and the partner communication
systems and performance metrics that were set up. Effective
communication between alliance partners was essential. Was Aegis
effectively communicating with either alliance partner? Although
there were contractual specifications about how often they had to
meet, communication appeared to be confined to situations when
either side had a question or needed clarification on an issue.
Communications between Honeywell POMS and ProPack Data had
been cordial, but there was no evidence that the partners had a free
flow of communication beyond the “need to know” when problems
arose.

For Honeywell POMS, the Aegis director of business development
handled all direct communications. The current agreement allowed
the companies to set agendas and develop sales opportunities at a
level that met the alliance’s needs. Group phone calls, sales calls,
and bi-yearly face-to-face meetings were designed to keep the
companies in contact with each other. Though initially there was
contact between engineers to make sure the technologies were
compatible, most communication occurred between the companies’
sales teams and corporate management. Communication between
sales teams occurred when they were working the same sales
together, which they had done on several occasions; then, there was
frequent communication. The loss of key personnel in both
companies required the new managers to begin to rebuild the
communication level and the overall interest in the relationship. At
the corporate level, they communicated weekly. Though more
frequent communication would perhaps be better, Jahn believed the
current level allowed the companies to set agendas and develop
sales opportunities at a level that met the alliance’s needs. As the
alliance developed, Aegis realized it had a good cultural fit with
Honeywell POMS and noted very few communication problems.
Aegis believed it could share information with Honeywell.


The Aegis and ProPack Data agreement was hindered when Aegis’s
primary contact left ProPack Data, handing off responsibility to
someone who did not take an active role, thereby frustrating the
Aegis team. On both sides, communication had not extended
beyond the contact persons, and the relationship suffered. The two
companies had been trying to move beyond these events and had
taken steps to improve the channels of communication between the
firms.
A Difficult Decision
As Jahn reflected upon the development of the company and these
relationships, she wondered about Aegis’s alliance strategy and
what actions to take. Perhaps it was too early to make changes—
these were difficult economic times and Aegis might not have given
the relationships enough time to produce sales. Jahn and Neway
knew that communication and trust were important to keeping a
relationship going through troubled times. Their comfort level and
trust increased with each partner as time went on. On the other
hand, one could argue that these relationships had already had
sufficient time to prove themselves and it did not appear that either
would be successful. If Aegis terminated one or both of these
relationships, it would need to focus its time and energy on more
productive sales options. But what would these be?


Relationships with other partners large enough to get the attention of
main pharmaceutical companies would likely have some of the same
problems as these two relationships and would take time to develop.
Rather than terminate these alliances, a more reasonable solution
might be to restructure the relationships. This could include changes
in the contract with either Rockwell or Honeywell, or in their
interactions with one another. Believing they had put together
contracts with appropriate incentives to encourage sales, their
thoughts turned to improving the relationships with each company.
But how would a company of fewer than 40 employees influence
either of these large corporations? Further, as a small company
between rounds of financing, Aegis did not have a lot of extra
financial or staffing resources. Any solution would have to be a low-
cost one. Each path was filled with risk and difficulties in
implementation, but Jahn and Neway knew that for Aegis to attract
investments and to succeed would require a quick but thoughtful
decision.
Case 3–5: Activision’s Crush on
Mobile Gaming
Introduction
On November 2, 2015, Activision-Blizzard
announced it would purchase mobile gaming
giant, King Entertainment for $5.9 billion. The all
cash deal was expected to close in March 2016.
Activision-Blizzard was formed in 2008 as a
merger of Activision and the interactive
entertainment division of Vivendi (Blizzard).
Activision-Blizzard was best known for its Call of
Duty, World of Warcraft, Skylanders, Starcraft,
and Destiny game franchises. In 2014, the
company reported revenues of about $4.4 billion
and was the number 3 video game (software)
company in the world behind Tencent, and
Microsoft.

King Entertainment PLC was founded in 2003
as a social games company. The company,
headquartered in Ireland, was primarily known
for its best-selling mobile game, Candy Crush
Saga. The company’s revenues came in at
about $2.6B in 2014, with Candy Crush Saga
generating nearly 50% of revenues despite
about 98% of Candy Crush players being non-
payers on the “free to play” service. King was
the largest mobile gaming company in 2014 with
an estimated 10% global market share.

At the time of the acquisition announcement,
mobile gaming companies largely had been
unable to repeat their successes as a “formula”
for developing a popular mobile game had
proven to be elusive. Meaning, most mobile
games were “one hit wonders.” Wacky games
like FlappyBird and Plants vs. Zombies
appeared to have chances to succeed as good
as apps associated with established game
franchises. Despite its success in PC and online
gaming, Activision-Blizzard had had little
success in cracking the mobile gaming market.
Activision’s revenues from mobile games and
accessories had fallen from $629 million in 2012
to $418 million in 2015. Given the large number
of failures and crowded mobile marketplace,
investors worried that Activision-Blizzard would
be making a nearly $6 billion mistake in
purchasing King Entertainment. Moreover, the
business models of Activision-Blizzard and King
Entertainment were fundamentally different—
and some observers noted, perhaps
fundamentally incompatible.
Global Video Industry
As Table 1          shows, the global video game industry generated
revenues of an estimated $81.5 billion in 2014 up about 16%
compared to 2013 – excluding global game hardware sales of
roughly $20 billion. Troublingly, the video game market rose about
9% in 2015, but all of the growth occurred in the mobile segment.
Mobile revenues jumped 37% compared to 2014, but PC games and
online game revenues declined about (−2) %. Video games were
broken into three large categories by technology platform. Console
games accounted for about 45% of global revenues followed by PC
games with an estimated 35% share of the market in 2014. Mobile
games brought in about 27% of industry revenues in 2014 and 33%
in 2015.1


Table 1 Global Video Game Market 2014-2015
Top 25 Companies in Game Software Development, Publishing, &
Distribution ($ in millions)

Source: NewZoo.Com Accessed 217117.
Physical distribution of consoles and games was concentrated in
electronics stores, big box retailers, and on e-commerce sites. For
example, Best Buy sold an estimated 17% of video games in the
U.S. market. Walmart accounted for 11% of Activision’s global
revenues in 2015. However, digital downloads were rapidly replacing
physical copies of games. Consumers purchased digital downloads
(DLC) games on each console’s websites, mobile application stores,
and on the Steam digital gaming platform. Steam, a division of Valve,
accounted for about 75% of the $10 billion global market of digital
PC game content transactions in 2013.2 Note that the console game
hardware manufacturers also accounted for a substantial portion of
game revenues worldwide. To illustrate, Sony and Microsoft
accounted for 18% and 13% of Activision’s revenues in 2015.


The top 4 video game markets—China, the United States, Japan,
and South Korea—generated about two-thirds of global video game
sales despite making up just 40% of the world’s 3.1 billion internet
users. Germany, the UK, France and Canada made up an additional
12% of global video game sales in 2014.3
Mobile Gaming Segment
Table 2         shows revenues of the mobile gaming segment of the
global video game industry by company in 2014 and 2015. In
contrast to the overall video game market, the U.S. market
dominated the mobile gaming segment. The United States made up
32% of the worldwide mobile game market followed by Japan with
26% of the market. South Korea followed with about a 10% market
share and the UK held an estimated 7% of the mobile game market.
Although China was the largest video game market in the world with
about a 24% market share, it only accounted for about 5% of the
world’s mobile game sales due to relatively low penetration of
smartphones.

Table 2 Global Mobile Game Industry Revenues by Company
2014
Source: NewZoo.com estimates.
In the US market, Apple’s app store beat Google’s Play store by 3:1
in mobile game sales in 2014. The two stores combined accounted
for nearly 100% of the U.S. mobile game market. Industry observers
attributed Apple’s dominance to two factors. First, Apple iPhone and
tablet users tended to be more affluent than Android consumers.
Second, Apple reportedly had 800 million iTunes accounts and 400
million credit card numbers on file—making mobile game purchases
quick and easy for Apple users. Outside the United States, Google’s
Android system was more popular. The Google Play store generated
more than 50% of mobile game purchases in Japan and 80% of
them in South Korea.3


Reportedly, the median lifetime revenue for mobile games sold
through Apple’s app store was a mere $3,000. While it only cost
about $130,000 to fully develop a mobile game, most games lost
money for the developer. Overall, there were about 19 million
software developers and 8.7 million mobile apps developers in the
world in 2014. An estimated 60% of mobile app developers lived,
“below the app poverty line” i.e., made less than $500 per app per
month.4 Only about 4% of all mobile games had lifetime revenues of
over $1 million. Less than 2% of all mobile gamers purchased
anything at all, as nearly all mobile gamers played for free. A tiny
fraction of mobile gamers (0.15%), so-called “whales” accounted for
over 50% of all mobile gaming revenues. One Japanese company
supposedly had a “whale” that spent over $10,000 per month on app
purchases. In response, the company dedicated one employee to
that customer to ensure that she was satisfied with the game so as
to earn her repeat business. On average, mobile games retained
only 15% of players 30 days after installation and a paltry 4% of
players after three months, which made attentiveness to a game’s
“whales” critical to success. Moreover, the life cycle of mobile games
had compressed significantly. According to App Annie, mobile game
maturity plunged from 50 weeks in 2014 to 17 weeks in 2015—
meaning that the average mobile game launched in 2015 received
nearly all of its potential downloads in 4 months. In 2012, it took
mobile games over 10x longer to reach maturity.


Note that PC game developers were not much better off. The
average game on Steam sold only 32,000 copies—better than
mobile apps, but development costs were considerably higher for PC
games. (To illustrate, Activision-Blizzard invested nearly $1.8 billion
in product development from 2012-2014.) While Activision had 19%
net margin in 2015, the majority of both mobile and PC game
developers were unprofitable.
Activision-Blizzard
Activision-Blizzard (ACTV) was a game developer and publisher.
The U.S. based company had one of the largest and most popular
game franchises in the world, Call of Duty. Call of Duty was a first
person shooter game played primarily on game consoles like X Box,
and Playstation. According to Activision management, Call of Duty
was so popular that 125 million people played the game from 2010-
2014. As of June 2014, players had logged in a cumulative total of
25 billion hours. Players paid between $60 and $75 for a copy of Call
of Duty, depending upon their gaming platform.


The company also owned the world’s most popular MMORPG
(massively multi-player on line role playing game) World of Warcraft.
Unlike console games that garnered revenues mainly from the one-
time sale of games and follow up “expansion packs,” World of
Warcraft’s 5.6 million players paid monthly subscription fees ranging
from $13 to $15 per month in addition to an upfront cost of roughly
$50 to begin playing the game.


Activision-Blizzard also had been successful in establishing newer
game franchises that were extremely popular with gamers. The
company’s Skylanders franchise was launched in 2007 and Destiny
was introduced in 2013. The three franchises and World of Warcraft
together accounted for 71% of Activision’s sales in 2015.
Activision-Blizzard’s Strategy
Although the Activision-Blizzard merger had occurred several years
earlier, the two companies still operated somewhat separately in
2015. Activision primarily was a game publisher that saw itself as a
“franchise creator.” The division’s management team planned to use
a 4-pronged approach to creating shareholder value. Namely, it
intended to 1. broaden the company’s reach; 2. deepen player
engagement with its games; 3. earn player investment; and 4. use its
scale to create more value.5 Broadening reach was management’s
way of saying that the company intended to geographically diversify,
expand its game capabilities to different technology platforms, and to
target new demographic segments of the gaming market. Deepening
engagement meant creating game communities and social networks
as well as personalizing games. Part of this effort had led
management to announce in 2015 that it would expand the Call of
Duty franchise to include TV and movies. Earning player investment
would be accomplished through add-on content sales, season
passes, and character/world investments through in game
purchases. Similarly, the Blizzard division intended to: 1) provide
epic entertainment through superior content and gaming
experiences; 2) deepen player engagement; and 3) aggressively
expand its community to include e-sports.6 In 2014, over 100 million
people worldwide watched e-sports—more than viewed NHL and
nearly as many viewers as MLB. Blizzard management felt the
division had a strong competitive advantage stemming from its
ownership of “the most iconic franchises in the world” along with a
proven track record in innovation and proprietary analytics. In
addition, the division had 70 million direct connections with
consumers. Table 3 shows the company’s breakdown of results
by operating segment for 2012-2015.


Table 3 Activision-Blizzard Results by Segment
Overall Results
Given the company’s strong gaming line up and scale, it was not
surprising that Activision-Blizzard was a profitable company. As
Table 4 shows, Activision-Blizzard had a net margin of about 19%
in 2014. However, its return on assets was an uninspiring 5%.
Moreover, the company had experienced revenue declines and
some margin compression over the previous three years. While
some of the company’s game franchises were growing, World of
Warcraft’s popularity had declined in recent years. In addition, the
console game manufacturers had recently released new hardware
versions. Although demand for the new consoles was growing
rapidly, the transition from old hardware to new hardware had
negatively impacted sales of console games, which accounted for
well over half of Activision-Blizzard’s revenues. Management
expected console game sales to catch up and surpass their previous
levels, but the transition to new hardware was expected to take
several years.


Table 4 Activision-Blizzard Selected Financials ($ in millions)
Source: Activision-Blizzard 2015 10K Annual Report.
Also, game development costs had increased substantially. While
the first Call of Duty game cost an estimated $8.5 million to develop
in 2004, development costs skyrocketed over the next decade. While
Activision-Blizzard’s once extremely popular Guitar Hero game cost
only $1.7 million to develop in 2005, development costs for a similar,
competing title (Rock Band) had jumped to $20 million by 2007.
Indeed, Call of Duty 2: Advanced Warfare launched in 2009 had a
production budget of $40-$50 million with total costs including
marketing and distribution coming in at $200 million. In 2008,
Blizzard management disclosed that the company had spent over
$200 million to maintain World of Warcraft from 2004-2008. ACTV
reportedly paid game-developer, Bungie, $140 million to develop
Destiny. The game, launched in September 2014, had captured 25
million registered players by September 2015.


By the end of 2015, revenues had rebounded modestly —up 5.8%—
and net profits had risen 6.8%. Nevertheless, investors were uneasy
about Activision-Blizzard’s longer term prospects due to the highly
competitive nature of the market and frequent technology changes.
Still, all of the console games in the top ten in 2015 were established
franchises with an average age of 15 years. Moreover, Activision-
Blizzard owned three of the top ten best-selling console games —
Call of Duty, Skylanders, and Destiny.7
King Entertainment Acquisition:
Searching for New Growth
Vehicles
In addition to the announced move into TV and movie content with
the Call of Duty franchise, ACTV management wanted to move into
the mobile gaming market to cover all technology platforms and to
appeal to new customers. As a result, the company agreed to
purchase King Entertainment for $5.9 billion. Headquartered in
Ireland, King’s business was very different from ACTV’s gaming
business. While 100% of ACTV’s customers always paid for a game,
often paid for a subscription, and sometimes made in game
purchases, nearly 100% of King’s customers played the company’s
games for free. In fact, less than 2% of King’s “customers” spent any
money at all on its games or in game virtual game accessories. The
company summed up its approach to gaming in its 2014 annual
report (20-F) by saying, “we have designed our mobile and social
games with the following characteristics . . . anytime, anywhere,
seamlessly synchronized across platforms and devices, highly
engaging (easy to learn, but hard to master), inherently social, and
free-to-play. Most players can reach the highest level of a game
without making a purchase. For those who do, we price our virtual
items relative to the entertainment value they deliver.” “Our mission
is to delight the world with brilliant games that create moments of
magic.“8 The company’s four category-leading franchises were
Candy Crush, Farm Heros, Bubble Witch, and Pet Rescue. Candy
Crush Soda Saga became the number 6 mobile game after its
launch in 2014. At the end of 2014, King owned three of the top ten
games offered in the Apple App store and four of the top ten games
offered in the Google Play store in the US market.


In contrast to most mobile game companies, King Entertainment
management felt that developing long-term relationships with an
extensive user network was the single most important contributor to
long-term success. As a result, the company offered all of its mobile
games “advertisement free.” Historically, King collected a small
amount of advertising revenue from its tournament side, but had
completely discontinued the practice by the end of 2Q, 2013. King
generated revenues primarily through the sale of virtual items within
its games. According to the 10K, “Virtual items available for
purchase include extra lives, allowing players to extend the duration
of their game session, skill-enhancing boosters, helping our players
progress through games more quickly and access to content,
hastening players’ access to new episodes.” A typical in-app
purchase for an “extra life” on Candy Crush cost players $0.99. The
most expensive item, a virtual bomb cooler, cost $1.99. However,
other games charged as much as $99 for their most expensive
virtual items. During 2014, King switched from in-game purchases of
discrete items to in-game purchases of so-called “virtual currency.”
Management felt the transition to virtual currency had a positive
impact on the monetization of players over time.
The company’s strategy was to: 1) maintain and grow its casual
[game] leadership; 2) prioritize engagement and monetization across
its portfolio of casual games by introducing new titles, content and
features, launching franchise extensions and titles and concentrating
on social engagement as a core game-driver; 3) focus on product
innovation by launching innovative products within its classic casual
genre and adjacent game genres of broad appeal, and by
introducing new monetization features that appeal to its players; and
4) reinforce its player network by strengthening its network through
investing in the reactivation of historical players, monetizing the
hundreds of millions of players in its network, continuing to promote
player adoption of additional games across its portfolio, and
acquiring new-to-network players. Nevertheless, King had only been
successful in monetizing 8,344,000 of its 533,000,000 monthly active
users or about 1.6% of the total as of the end of 2014. This figure
was made up of 356 million monthly unique users and about 177
million repeat players per month.

King Entertainment management believed that game development
was a core strength of the company. According to King’s 2014
annual report, the company had developed 195 game IPs
(intellectual properties) between 2003-2013. King typically
introduced new casual game IPs in a tournament format on its
royalgames.com website, allowing it to gather feedback on the
games quickly. The company then modified its new games for launch
on mobile devices and on Facebook. Management felt that this
approach had allowed King to establish its category-leading
franchises. The company also had adopted some principles of
entrepreneurship—namely, rapid prototyping in adjacent game
categories by small development teams. In management’s view, this
approach reduced the risk associated with new game launches as
well as the costs. In fact, the company claimed that it was able to,
“deliver performance, resilience, and high scalability at a fraction of
comparable industry costs.” King’s annual report noted that its
scalable proprietary server infrastructure built on commodity
hardware accommodated an average of 149 million daily active
users playing its games 1.5 billion times per day.

While King Entertainment’s growth had been nothing short of
spectacular since its founding, investors had become concerned
about the company’s ability to maintain its results. Some of the
factors that had impacted Activision-Blizzard’s margins also came
into play for King. Namely, product development costs had increased
significantly for the company over the past two years. While the
company’s original games were inexpensive to develop, the process
of searching for new game concepts to develop and market that
would be large enough to maintain the company’s size was quite
expensive. Unfortunately for King, the costs to develop a “one off”
mobile game for its indie competitors remained inexpensive at
approximately $130,000 per app. Moreover, marketing costs had
skyrocketed from $55 million in 2012 to $455 million in 2014. In
2015, revenues began to decline as Candy Crush lost some of its
popularity and the company was unable to compensate for lost
revenues with its new product introduction. King’s revenues and
operating profits fell (−11) %, while return on assets dropped from
about 40% in 2014 to less than 34% in 2015. King’s results left
Activision investors wondering whether the acquisition would pay off
or lead to protracted revenue declines and margin compression in
the future.

Table 5 King Entertainment Results ($ in millions)
Sources: King Entertainment 20-F filings, King Entertainment 4Q:15 Results Press Release.
References
1    NewZoo.com estimates. www.newzoo.com Accessed
10/2015.
2    Wikipedia- Steam (Software) https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
Steam_%28software%29 Accessed 10/2015.
3    NewZoo.com estimates. www.newzoo.com Accessed
10/2015.
4    Vision Mobile: ’App poverty line’ represents 60% of all
developers. By Shane Schick July 10, 2015. FierceWireless.com
http://www.fiercewireless.com/developer/vision-mobile-app-
poverty-line-represents-60-all-developers Accessed 10/2015.
5    Activision-Blizzard Investor Day 2015 Presentation. http://
investor.activision.com/events.cfm
6    Ibid.
7    Ibid.
8    King Entertainment 2015 20-F Annual Report.
Appendix Analyzing Cases and
Preparing for Class Discussions
This book, properly understood, is really about
how to analyze cases. Just reading the book,
however, is no more likely to fully develop one’s
skills as a strategist than reading a book about
golf will make one a golfer. Practice in applying
the concepts and tools is essential. Cases
provide the opportunity for this necessary
practice.
Why the Case Method?
The core of many strategic management courses is the case method
of instruction. Under the case method, you will study and discuss the
real-world challenges and dilemmas that face managers in firms.
Cases are typically accounts of situations that a firm or manager has
faced at a given point in time. By necessity, cases do not possess
the same degree of complexity that a manager faces in the real
world, but they do provide a concrete set of facts that suggest
challenges and opportunities that real managers have faced. Very
few cases have clear answers. The case method encourages you to
engage problems directly and propose solutions or strategies in the
face of incomplete information. To succeed at the case method, you
must develop the capability to analyze and synthesize data that are
sometimes ambiguous and conflicting. You must be able to prioritize
issues and opportunities and make decisions in the face of
ambiguous and incomplete information. Finally, you must be able to
persuade others to adopt your point of view.


In an applied field like strategic management, the real test of learning
is how well you can apply knowledge to real-world situations.
Strategic management cases offer you the opportunity to develop
judgment and wisdom in applying your conceptual knowledge. By
applying the concepts you have learned to the relatively unstructured
information in a case, you develop judgment in applying concepts.
Alfred North Whitehead discussed the importance of application to
knowledge:

  This discussion rejects the doctrine that students should first learn passively, and then,
  having learned, should apply knowledge. . . . For the very meaning of the things known
  is wrapped up in their relationship beyond themselves. This unapplied knowledge is
  knowledge shorn of its meaning.
   Alfred North Whitehead (1947). Essays in Science and Philosophy. New York: Philosophical Library, Inc. pp.

   218–219.




Thus, you gain knowledge as you apply concepts. With the case
method, you do not passively absorb wisdom imparted from your
instructor, but actively develop it as you wrestle with the real-world
situations described in the cases.
How to Analyze Cases
Before discussing how to analyze a case, it may be useful to
comment on how not to prepare a case. We see two common
failings in case preparation that often go hand-in-hand. First,
students often do not apply conceptual frameworks in a rigorous and
systematic manner. Second, many students do not devote sufficient
time to reading, analyzing, and discussing a case before class. Many
students succumb to the temptation to quickly read a case and latch
on to the most visible issues that present themselves. Thus, they
come to class prepared to make only a few superficial observations
about a case. Often, they entirely miss the deeper issues around
why a firm is in the situation that it is in and how it can better its
performance. Applying the frameworks systematically may take more
time and effort in the beginning, but it will generally lead to deeper
insights about the cases and a more profound understanding of the
concepts in the chapters. As you gain experience in this systematic
approach to analyzing cases, many of you will find that your
preparation time will decrease. This appendix offers a framework
that will assist you as you analyze cases. The framework is
important, but no framework can substitute for hard work. There are
no great shortcuts to analyzing cases, and there is no single right
method for preparing a case. The following approach, however, may
help you develop your ability to analyze cases.
1. Skim through the case very quickly. Pay particular
  attention to the exhibits. The objective in this step is to gain
  familiarity with the broad facts of the case. What apparent
  challenges or opportunities does the company face? What
  information is provided? You may find it especially useful to
  focus on the first and last few paragraphs of the case in this
  step.
2. Read the case more carefully and make notes, underline,
   etc. What appear to be important facts? The conceptual
   frameworks in the chapters will be essential in helping you
   identify the key facts. Throughout the course, you will want to
   address central questions such as the following:
      What is the firm’s performance?
      What is the firm’s mission? strategy? goals?
      What are the resources involved in the firm’s value chain?
      How do they compare to competitors on cost and
      differentiation?
      Does the firm have a competitive advantage?
      Are the firm’s advantages and disadvantages temporary or
      sustainable?
      What is the value of the firm’s resources?
      Are the firm’s resources rare?
      Are the firm’s resources costly to imitate?
      Is the firm organized sufficiently to exploit its resources?

  Depending on the case, you may also want to consider other
  frameworks and questions, where appropriate. Each chapter
  provides concepts and frameworks that you may want to
  consider. For example:
     What are the five forces? How do they influence industry
     opportunities and threats? (Chapter 2 )
     What are the sources of cost differences in an industry?
     (Chapter 4 )
     What are the bases and potential bases for product
     differentiation in an industry? (Chapter 5    )


  Each chapter suggests more specific questions and concepts
  than those above. You will want to consider these concepts in
  detail. In some cases, the instructor may offer direction about
  which concepts to apply to a given case. In other instances,
  you may be left to use your judgment in choosing which
   concepts to focus on in analyzing a case.
3. Define the basic issues. This is perhaps the most important
  step and also the stage of analysis that requires the most
  wisdom and judgment. Cases are rarely like tidy problem sets
  where the issues or problems are explicitly stated and the
  tools needed to address those issues are prescribed.
  Generally, you need to determine what the key issues are. In
  doing this, it may help for you to begin by asking: What are
  the fundamental issues in the case? Which concepts matter
  most in providing insight into those issues? One trap to avoid
  in defining basic issues is doing what some decision-making
  scholars label “plunging-in,” which is drawing conclusions
  without first thinking about the crux of the issues involved in a
  decision.1 Many students have a tendency to seize the first
  issues that are prominently mentioned in a case. As an
  antidote to this trap, you may want to consider a case from
  the perspective of different conceptual frames.
  1 J. E. Russo and P. J. H. Schoemaker (1989). Decision Traps: The Ten Barriers to
  Brilliant Decision-Making and How to Overcome Them. New York: Fireside.


4. Develop and elaborate your analysis of the key issues.
  As with all of the steps, there is no substitute for painstaking
  work in this stage. You need to take the key issues you have
  defined in Step 3, examine the facts that you have noted in
  Step 2, and assess what are the key facts. What does
  quantitative analysis reveal? Here it is not just ratio analysis
  that we are concerned with. Just as body temperature, blood
  pressure, and pulse rate may reveal something about a
  person’s health but little about the causes of a sickness, ratio
  analysis typically tells us more about the health of a company
  than the causes of its performance. You should assemble
  facts and analysis to support your point of view. Opinions
  unsupported by factual evidence and analysis are generally
  not persuasive. This stage of the analysis involves organizing
  the facts in the case. You will want to develop specific
  hypotheses about what factors relate to success in a
  particular setting. Often, you will find it helpful to draw
  diagrams to clarify your thinking.
5. Draw conclusions and formulate a set of
  recommendations. You may be uncomfortable drawing
  conclusions and making recommendations because you do
  not have complete information. This is an eternal dilemma for
  managers. Managers who wait for complete information to do
  something, however, usually act too late. Nevertheless, you
  should strive to do the most complete analysis that you can
  under reasonable time constraints. Recommendations should
  also flow naturally from your analysis. Too often, students
  formulate their recommendations in an ad hoc way. In
  formulating recommendations, you should be clear about
   priorities and the sequence of actions that you recommend.
6. Prepare for class discussion. Students who diligently work
  through the first five steps and rigorously examine a case
  should be well prepared for class discussion. You may find it
  helpful to make some notes and bring them to class. Over the
  years, we have observed that many of the students who are
  low contributors to class discussions bring few or no notes to
  class. Once in class, a case discussion usually begins with a
  provocative question from the instructor. Many instructors will
  “cold call”—direct a question to a specific student who has not
  been forewarned. Students who have thoroughly analyzed
  and discussed the case before coming to class will be much
  better prepared for these surprise calls. They will also be
  better prepared to contribute to the analysis, argument, and
  persuasion that will take place in the class discussion.
  Discussions can move rapidly. You will hear new insights from
  fellow students. Preparation helps you to absorb, learn, and
  contribute to the insights that emerge from class discussion.
Summary
Students who embark in the case method soon learn that analyzing
cases is a complex process. Having a clear conceptual approach
such as the VRIO framework does not eliminate the complexity. This
systematic approach, however, does allow the analyst to manage the
complexity of real-world business situations. In the end, though,
neither cases nor real-world businesses conclude their analyses with
tidy solutions that resolve all the uncertainties and ambiguities a
business faces. However, the case method coupled with a good
theory such as the VRIO approach and hard work do make it more
likely that you will generate valuable insights into the strategic
challenges of firms and develop the strategic skills needed to lead a
firm.

Table A.1 Black·Scholes Option Pricing Table
Glossary
above-average accounting performance:
   when a firm’s accounting performance is greater than the industry
   average


above-normal economic performance:
   when a firm earns above its cost of capital

absorptive capacity:
   the ability of firms to learn


accounting performance:
   a measure of a firm’s competitive advantage; calculated from
   information in the firm’s published profit and loss and balance
   sheet statements

accounting ratios:
   numbers taken from a firm’s financial statements that are
   manipulated in ways that describe various aspects of the firm’s
   performance

acquisition:
   a firm purchases another firm


acquisition premium:
   the difference between the current market price of a target firm’s
   shares and the price a potential acquirer offers to pay for those
   shares

activity ratios:
   accounting ratios that focus on the level of activity in a firm’s
   business


adverse selection:
   an alliance partner promises to bring to an alliance certain
   resources that it either does not control or cannot acquire


after-tax cost of debt:
   the cost of debt multiplied times one minus a firm’s marginal tax
   rate (assuming that the interest on debt is tax deductible)


agency problems:
   parties in an agency relationship differ in their decision-making
   objectives

agency relationship:
   one party in an exchange delegates decision-making authority to
   a second party


agent:
   a party to whom decision-making authority is delegated


architectural competence:
   the ability of a firm to use organizational structure and other
   organizing mechanisms to facilitate coordination among scientific
   disciplines to conduct research


auction:
   in mergers and acquisitions, a mechanism for establishing the
   price of an asset when multiple firms bid for a single target firm


audit committee:
   subgroup of the board of directors responsible for ensuring the
   accuracy of accounting and financial statements


average accounting performance:
   when a firm’s accounting performance is equal to the industry
   average


backward vertical integration:
   a firm incorporates more stages of the value chain within its
   boundaries and those stages bring it closer to gaining access to
   raw materials


barriers to entry:
   attributes of an industry’s structure that increase the cost of entry


below-average accounting performance:
   when a firm’s accounting performance is less than the industry
   average
below-normal economic performance:
   when a firm earns less than its cost of capital


Black-Scholes formula:
   used to determine an option’s value depending on five variables:
   (1) the value of the underlying financial asset, (2) the option’s
   exercise price, (3) the time to an option’s maturity, (4) the
   variance in the price of the asset on which an option is written,
   and (5) the risk-free rate of interest

board chair:
   the person who presides over the board of directors; may or may
   not be the same person as a firm’s senior executive; also known
   as Chairman of the Board


board of directors:
   a group of 10 to 15 individuals drawn from a firm’s top
   management and from people outside the firm whose primary
   responsibilities are to monitor decisions made in the firm and to
   ensure that they are consistent with the interests of outside equity
   holders


business cycle:
   the alternating pattern of prosperity followed by recession
   followed by prosperity

business model:
   the set of activities that a firm engages in to create and
   appropriate economic value

business strategy:
   a firm’s theory of how to gain competitive advantage in a single
   business or industry

business-level strategies:
   actions firms take to gain competitive advantages in a single
   market or industry

buyers:
   those who purchase a firm’s products or services

capabilities:
   a subset of a firm’s resources, defined as tangible and intangible
   assets, that enable a firm to take full advantage of other
   resources it controls


Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM):
   a model used to estimate the cost of equity

causally ambiguous:
   imitating firms do not understand the relationship between the
   resources and capabilities controlled by a firm and that firm’s
   competitive advantage


chairman of the board:
   the person who presides over the board of directors; may or may
   not be the same person as a firm’s senior executive

chief executive officer (CEO):
   person to whom all functional managers report in a U-form
   organization; the person to whom all divisional personal and
   corporate staff report to in an M-form organization: responsible
   for strategy formulation and implementation

chief operating officer (COO):
   reports to CEO; primary responsibility is strategy implementation

closely held:
   a firm that has not sold many of its shares on the public stock
   market

collusion:
   two or more firms in an industry coordinate their strategic choices
   to reduce competition in that industry

compensation policies:
   the ways that firms pay employees

competitive advantage:
   a firm creates more economic value than rival firms

competitive disadvantage:
   a firm generates less economic value than rival firms
competitive dynamics:
   how one firm responds to the strategic actions of competing firms

competitive parity:
   a firm creates the same economic value as rival firms


competitor:
  any firm, group, or individual trying to reduce a firm’s competitive
   advantage


complementary resources and capabilities:
   resources and capabilities that have limited ability to generate
   competitive advantage in isolation but in combination with other
   resources can enable a firm to realize its full potential for
   competitive advantage


complementor:
   when the value of a firm’s products increases in the presence of
   another firm’s products

conduct:
   (as in structured conduct performance model) the strategies that
   firms in an industry implement


conglomerate merger:
   a merger or acquisition where there are no vertical, horizontal,
   product extension, or market extension links between the firms
conscious parallelism:
   when a firm consciously makes price and output decisions in
   order to reduce competition, but does not directly communicate
   with its competition


consolidation strategy:
   strategy that reduces the number of firms in an industry by
   exploiting economies of scale


controlling share:
   when an acquiring firm purchases enough of a target firm’s
   assets to be able to make all the management and strategic
   decisions in the target firm

core competence:
   the collective learning in an organization, especially how to
   coordinate diverse production skills and integrate multiple
   streams of technologies


corporate competence:
   exists when a firm develops managerial skills, technical
   knowhow, experience, and wisdom in managing a diversified
   corporation


corporate diversification strategy:
   when a firm operates in multiple industries or markets
   simultaneously
corporate staff:
   upper-level managers who provide information about a firm’s
   external and internal environments to the firm’s senior executive


corporate strategy:
   a firm’s theory of how to gain competitive advantage by operating
   in several businesses simultaneously

corporate-level strategies:
   actions firms take to gain competitive advantages by operating in
   multiple markets or industries simultaneously


cost centers:
   divisions are assigned a budget and manage their operations to
   that budget

cost leadership business strategy:
   focuses on gaining advantages by reducing costs below those of
   competitors


cost of capital:
   the rate of return that a firm promises to pay its suppliers of
   capital to induce them to invest in a firm


cost of debt:
   the interest that a firm must pay its debt holders to induce them to
   lend money to the firm
cost of equity:
   the rate of return a firm must promise its equity holders to induce
   them to invest in the firm

crown jewel sale:
   a bidding firm is interested in just a few of the most highly
   regarded businesses being operated by the target firm, known as
   its crown jewels, and the target firm sells these businesses


culture:
   the values, beliefs, and norms that guide behavior in a society
   and in a firm


cumulative abnormal return (CAR):
   performance that is greater (or less) than what was expected in a
   short period of time around when an acquisition is announced

current market value:
   the price of each of a firm’s shares multiplied by the number of
   shares outstanding


customer-switching costs:
   customers make investments in order to use a firm’s particular
   products or services that are not useful in using other firms’
   products


cut throat competition:
   when a firm’s profit maximizing decision sets its price below its
   marginal costs


dead weight loss:
   a reduction in social welfare due to the actions of a monopolist


debt:
   capital from banks and bondholders


declining industry:
   an industry that has experienced an absolute decline in unit sales
   over a sustained period of time


deep-pockets model:
   a firm that takes advantage of its monopoly power in one
   business to subsidize several different businesses


demand management:
  when a firm increases or decreases prices depending on
   historical patterns to try to make sure that supply and demand
   balance


demographics:
   the distribution of individuals in a society in terms of age, sex,
   marital status, income, ethnicity, and other personal attributes
   that may determine their buying patterns


depression:
   a severe recession that lasts for several years


direct duplication:
   the attempt to imitate other firms by developing resources that
   have the same strategic effects as the resources controlled by
   those other firms

diseconomies of scale:
   a firm’s costs begin to rise as a function of the volume of
   production


distinctive competence:
   a valuable and rare resource or capability

distribution agreements:
   one firm agrees to distribute the products of others


diversification economies:
   sources of relatedness in a diversified firm

divestment:
   a firm sells a business in which it had been operating


division:
   each business that a firm engages in, also called a strategic
   business unit (SBU)

dominant logic:
   common theory of how to gain competitive advantages shared by
   each business in a diversified firm


dominant-business firms:
   firms with between 70 percent and 95 percent of their total sales
   in a single product market


economic climate:
   the overall health of the economic systems within which a firm
   operates


economic measures of competitive advantage:
   measures that compare a firm’s level of return to its cost of
   capital instead of to the average level of return in the industry

economic value:
   the difference between the perceived benefits gained by a
   customer who purchases a firm’s products or services and the full
   economic cost of these products or services


economic value added (EVA):
   calculated by subtracting the cost of the capital employed in a
   division from that division’s earnings


economies of scale:
   the per-unit cost of production falls as the volume of production
   increases
economies of scope:
   exists when the value created by several businesses operated
   together is greater than the value of these businesses operated
   separately


emergent strategies:
   theories of how to gain competitive advantage in an industry that
   emerge over time or have been radically reshaped once they are
   initially implemented


emerging industries:
   newly created or newly re-created industries formed by
   technological innovations, change in demand, or the emergence
   of new customer needs


empty core Industries:
   exist when four industry conditions are present: (1) capacity in
   this industry is added in large increments, relative to demand, (2)
   there are large unavoidable sunk costs associated with adding
   this extra capacity, (3) demand fluctuates in difficult to predict
   ways, and (4) there is limited product differentiation


environmental threat:
   any individual, group, or organization outside a firm that seeks to
   reduce the level of that firm’s performance

equity:
   capital from individuals and institutions that purchase a firm’s
   stocks


equity alliance:
   cooperating firms supplement contracts with equity holdings in
   alliance partners


escalation of commitment:
   an increased commitment by managers to an incorrect course of
   action, even as its limitations become manifest


event study analysis:
   evaluates the performance effects of acquisitions for bidding
   firms

executive committee:
   typically consists of the CEO and two or three functional senior
   managers


expected market return:
   the return an investor expects to receive from investing in a fully
   diversified portfolio of stocks


explicit collusion:
   firms directly communicate with each other to coordinate levels of
   production, prices, and so forth (illegal in most countries)


external analysis:
   identification and examination of the critical threats and
   opportunities in a firm’s competitive environment

finance committee:
   subgroup of the board of directors that maintains the relationship
   between the firm and external capital markets


financial resources:
   all the money, from whatever source, that firms use to conceive
   and implement strategies


firm-specific human capital investments:
   investments made by employees in a particular firm over time,
   including understanding the culture, policies, and procedures and
   knowing the people to contact to complete a task, that have
   limited value in other firms

firm-specific investments:
   the value of stakeholders’ investments in a particular firm is much
   greater than the value those same investments would be in other
   firms


first-mover advantages:
   advantages that come to firms that make important strategic and
   technological decisions early in the development of an industry


flexibility:
   how costly it is for a firm to alter its strategic and organizational
   decisions


formal management controls:
   a firm’s budgeting and reporting activities that keep people higher
   up in a firm’s organizational chart informed about the actions
   taken by people lower down in the organizational chart


formal reporting structure:
   a description of who in the organization reports to whom


forward vertical integration:
   a firm incorporates more stages of the value chain within its
   boundaries and those stages bring it closer to interacting directly
   with final customers


fragmented industries:
   industries in which a large number of small- or medium-sized
   firms operate and no small set of firms has dominant market
   share or creates dominant technologies


free cash flow:
   the amount of cash a firm has to invest after all positive net
   present-value investments in its ongoing businesses have been
   funded


friendly acquisitions:
   the management of a target firm wants the firm to be acquired
functional manager:
   a manager who leads a particular function within a firm, such as
   manufacturing, marketing, finance, accounting, or sales


functional organizational structure:
   the structure a firm uses to implement business-level strategies it
   might pursue where each function in the firm reports to the CEO


general environment:
   broad trends in the context within which a firm operates that can
   have an impact on a firm’s strategic choices


generic business strategies:
   another name for business-level strategies, which are cost
   leadership and product differentiation


geographic market diversification strategy:
   when a firm operates in multiple geographic markets
   simultaneously

golden parachutes:
   incentive compensation paid to senior managers if the firm they
   manage is acquired


greenmail:
   a target firm’s management purchases any of the target firm’s
   stock owned by a bidder for a price that is greater than its current
   market value
harvest strategy:
   a firm engages in a long, systematic, phased withdrawal from a
   declining industry, extracting as much value as possible


hedonic prices:
   that part of the price of a product or service that is attributable to
   a particular characteristic of that product or service

holdup:
   one firm makes more transaction-specific investments in an
   exchange than partner firms make and the firm that has not made
   these investments tries to exploit the firm that has made the
   investments


horizontal merger:
   a firm acquires a former competitor


hostile takeovers:
   the management of a target firm does not want the firm to be
   acquired

human resources:
   include the training, experience, judgment, intelligence,
   relationships, and insight of individual managers and workers in a
   firm


imperfectly imitable:
   resources and capabilities that are more costly for other firms to
   imitate, compared to firms that already possess them


increasing returns industries:
   another name for network industries


increasing returns to scale:
   in network industries, the value of a product or service increases
   as the number of people using those products or services
   increases


industry culture:
   norms of acceptable behaviors that exist among firms in an
   industry


industry recipe:
   the standard operating procedures, acceptable forms of
   competition, and norms of behavior for firms in an industry


industry social structure:
   accepted norms of behavior and competition that often evolve in
   industries

inelastic in supply:
   the quantity of supply is fixed and does not respond to price
   increases, such as the total supply of land, which is relatively
   fixed and cannot be significantly increased in response to higher
   demand and prices
Informal management controls:
   include a firm’s culture and the willingness of employees to
   monitor each other’s behavior


Institutional owners:
   pension funds, corporations, and others that invest other peoples’
   money in firm equities


intermediate products or services:
   products or services produced in one division that are used as
   inputs for products or services produced by a second division


internal analysis:
   identification of a firm’s organizational strengths and weaknesses
   and of the resources and capabilities that are likely to be sources
   of competitive advantage


internal capital market:
   when businesses in a diversified firm compete for corporate
   capital


invented competencies:
   illusory inventions by creative managers to justify poor
   diversification moves by linking intangible core competencies to
   completely unrelated businesses


joint venture:
   cooperating firms create a legally independent firm in which they
   invest and from which they share any profits that are created


learning curve:
   a concept that formalizes the relationship between cumulative
   volumes of production and falling per-unit costs


learning race:
   both parties to an alliance seek to learn from each other, but the
   rate at which these two firms learn varies; the first party to learn
   “wins” the race and may withdraw from the alliance

legal and political conditions:
   the laws and the legal system’s impact on business, together with
   the general nature of the relationship between government and
   business


leverage ratios:
   accounting ratios that focus on the level of a firm’s financial
   flexibility


licensing agreements:
   one firm allows others to use its brand name to sell products in
   return for some fee or percentage of profits

limited corporate diversification:
   all or most of a firm’s business activities fall within a single
   industry and geographic market
liquidity ratios:
   accounting ratios that focus on the ability of a firm to meet its
   short-term financial obligations


management control systems:
   a range of formal and informal mechanisms to ensure that
   managers are behaving in ways consistent with a firm’s
   strategies


managerial hubris:
   the unrealistic belief held by managers in bidding firms that they
   can manage the assets of a target firm more efficiently than the
   target firm’s current management

managerial know-how:
   the oft-taken for granted knowledge and information that are
   needed to compete in an industry on a day-to-day basis


managerial perquisites:
   activities that do not add economic value to the firm but directly
   benefit the managers who make them


managerial risk aversion:
   managers unable to diversify their firm-specific human capital
   investments may engage in less risky business decisions than
   what would be preferred by equity holders

market extension merger:
   firms make acquisitions in new geographical markets

market for corporate control:
   the market that is created when multiple firms actively seek to
   acquire one or several firms


market leader:
   the firm with the largest market share in an industry


market uncertainty:
   the extent to which managers do not understand how a new
   product or service will be received in the market


matrix structures:
   one employee reports to two or more people

mature industries:
   an industry in which, over time, ways of doing business have
   become widely understood, technologies have diffused through
   competitors, and the rate of innovation in new products and
   technologies drops


merger:
   the assets of two similar-sized firms are combined


M-form (multidivisional):
   an organizational structure for implementing a corporate
   diversification strategy whereby each business a firm engages in
   is managed through a separate profit-and-loss division


mission:
   a firm’s long-term purpose


mission statement:
   written statement defining both what a firm aspires to be in the
   long run and what it wants to avoid in the meantime


monopolistic competition:
   a market structure where within the market niche defined by a
   firm’s differentiated product, a firm possesses a monopoly


monopolistic industries:
   industries that consist of only a single firm

monopolistically competitive industries:
   industries in which there are large numbers of competing firms
   and low-cost entry and exit, but products are not homogeneous
   with respect to cost or product attributes; firms are said to enjoy a
   “monopoly” in that part of the market they dominate


monopoly:
   when a single firm is operating in an industry


moral hazard:
   partners in an exchange possess high-quality resources and
   capabilities of significant value to the exchange but fail to make
   them available to the other partners


mutual forbearance:
   a form of tacit collusion whereby firms tacitly agree to not
   compete in one industry in order to avoid competition in a second
   industry


network industries:
   industries in which a single technical standard and increasing
   returns to scale tend to dominate; competition in these industries
   tends to focus on which of several competing standards will be
   chosen


new competitors:
   firms that have either recently started operating in an industry or
   that threaten to begin operations in an industry soon


niche strategy:
   a firm reduces its scope of operations and focuses on narrow
   segments of a declining industry


nominating committee:
   subgroup of the board of directors that nominates new board
   members

nonequity alliance:
   cooperating firms agree to work together to develop,
   manufacture, or sell products or services, but they do not take
   equity positions in each other or form an independent
   organizational unit to manage the cooperative efforts


normal economic performance:
   a firm that earns its cost of capital


objectives:
   specific, measurable targets a firm can use to evaluate the extent
   to which it is realizing its mission


office of the president:
   together, the roles of chairman of the board, CEO, and COO

oligopolies:
   industries characterized by a small number of competing firms,
   by homogeneous products, and by costly entry and exit costs


oligopoly:
   when a few firms are operating in an industry


operations committee:
   typically meets monthly and usually consists of the CEO and
   each of the heads of the functional areas included in the firm


opportunism:
   a firm is unfairly exploited in an exchange


option to abandon:
   a firm’s ability to make choices that enhance their ability to
   abandon a particular strategy


option to contract:
   a firm’s ability to make choices that enhance their ability to get
   smaller and reduce investment in a strategy, should that option
   turn out to be valuable in the future


option to defer:
   a firm’s ability to make strategic choices that enhance its ability to
   defer additional investment in a strategy until some later period


option to expand:
   a firm’s ability to make choices that enhance its ability to expand
   its strategy beyond its current boundaries


option to grow:
   a firm’s ability to make choices that enhance their ability to “grow”
   an investment in the future, should that option turn out to be
   valuable


option to shut down and restart:
   a firm’s ability to make choices that enhance its ability to shut
   down and restart a business should this option be valuable in the
   future


organizational chart:
   a depiction of the formal reporting structure within a firm
organizational resources:
   a firm’s formal reporting structure; its formal and informal
   planning, controlling, and coordinating systems; its culture and
   reputation; and informal relations among groups within a firm and
   between a firm and those in its environment


Pac Man defense:
   fending off an acquisition by a firm acquiring the firm or firms
   bidding for it


path dependence:
   events early in the evolution of a process have significant effects
   on subsequent events


pecuniary economies:
   sources of relatedness in market power between bidding and
   target firms


perfect competition:
   when there are numerous competing firms in an industry, when
   these firms are of similar size, when there is little product
   differentiation among them, and when there is free entry and exit
   in an industry


perfectly competitive:
   when there are large numbers of competing firms, the products
   being sold are homogeneous with respect to cost and product
   attributes, and entry and exit costs are very low
performance:
   (in the structure-conduct-performance model) performance of
   individual firms and performance of the industry

personnel and compensation committee:
   subgroup of the board of directors that evaluates and
   compensates the performance of a firm’s senior executive and
   other senior managers


physical resources:
   all the physical technology used in a firm


poison pills:
   a variety of actions that target firm managers can take to make
   the acquisition of the target prohibitively expensive


policy choices:
   choices firms make about the kinds of products or services they
   will sell—choices that have an impact on relative cost and
   product differentiation position


policy of experimentation:
   exists when firms are committed to engage in several related
   product differentiation efforts simultaneously


positioning options:
   when a firm makes multiple small investments in an uncertain
   technology and waits to increase its investments until
   technological uncertainty is resolved


predatory pricing:
   setting prices so that they are less than a business’s costs


present value:
   equal to the sum of cash flows generated by choosing and
   implementing a particular strategy, discounted by how risky they
   are


price leader:
   a firm that sets “acceptable” industry prices or “acceptable” profit
   margins in an industry


price takers:
   where the price of the products or services a firm sells is
   determined by market conditions and not by the decisions of
   firms

principal:
   the party who delegates the decision-making authority


privately held:
   a firm that has stock that is not traded on public stock markets
   and that is not a division of a larger company


processes:
   the activities a firm engages in to design, produce, and sell its
   products or services


process innovation:
   a firm’s effort to refine and improve its current processes


process manufacturing:
   when manufacturing is accomplished in a continuous system;
   examples include manufacturing in chemical, oil refining, and
   paper and pulp industries


product differentiation:
   a business strategy whereby firms attempt to gain a competitive
   advantage by increasing the perceived value of their products or
   services relative to the perceived value of other firms’ products or
   services


product diversification strategy:
   a firm operates in multiple industries simultaneously


product extension merger:
   firms acquire complementary products through merger and
   acquisition activities


productive inputs:
   any supplies used by a firm in conducting its business activities,
   such as labor, capital, land, and raw materials, among others
product-market diversification strategy:
   a firm implements both product and geographic market
   diversification simultaneously


profitability ratios:
   accounting ratios with some measure of profit in the numerator
   and some measure of firm size or assets in the denominator


profit-and-loss centers:
   profits and losses are calculated at the level of the division in a
   firm


proprietary (secret or patented) technology:
   secret or patented technology that gives incumbent firms
   important advantages over potential entrants


question of imitability:
   “Do firms without a resource or capability face a cost
   disadvantage in obtaining or developing it compared to firms that
   already possess it?”


question of organization:
   “Is a firm organized to exploit the full competitive potential of its
   resources and capabilities?”


question of rarity:
   “How many competing firms already possess particular valuable
   resources and capabilities?”
question of value:
   “Does a resource enable a firm to exploit an external opportunity
   or neutralize an external threat?”


real assets:
   tangible resources that can have an impact on a firm’s
   production, including land, buildings, raw materials, finished
   goods inventories, distribution systems, information technology,
   and so forth

real options:
   investments in real assets that create the opportunity for
   additional investments in the future


recession:
   a period of relatively low prosperity; demand for goods and
   services is low and unemployment is high


related corporate diversification:
   less than 70 percent of a firm’s revenue comes from a single
   product market and its multiple lines of business are linked


related-constrained:
   the businesses in which a firm operates share the same
   economies of scope


related-linked:
   the different businesses that a single firm pursues realize
   different types of economies of scope


reputation:
   beliefs customers hold about a firm


residual claimants view:
   equity holders receive payment on their investment in a firm after
   all legitimate claims by a firm’s other stakeholders are satisfied


resource heterogeneity:
   for a given business activity, some firms may be more skilled in
   accomplishing the activity than other firms


resource immobility:
   resources controlled by some firms may not diffuse to other firms


resources:
   the tangible and intangible assets that a firm controls, which it
   can use to conceive and implement its strategies


retained earnings:
   capital generated from a firm’s ongoing operations that is
   retained by a firm

risk-free rate of return:
   the interest earned on a risk-free asset (typically an investment in
   a government bond)
risky:
   when the outcome of a decision is not known with certainty, but
   the possible outcomes associated with that decision, and their
   probability, are known before a decision is made


scouting options:
   when firms make several new offerings available to consumers,
   and invest once consumer preferences become clear


senior executive:
   the president or CEO of a firm


shakeout period:
   period during which the total supply in an industry is reduced by
   bankruptcies, acquisitions, and business closings


shared activities:
   potential sources of operational economies of scope for
   diversified firms


shared business-level competence:
   focuses on learning, know-how, and experience that develops in
   a business within a diversified firm that can then be leveraged in
   other businesses within that firm


shark repellents:
   a variety of relatively minor corporate governance changes that,
   in principle, are supposed to make it somewhat more difficult to
   acquire a target firm

single-business firms:
   firms with greater than 95 percent of their total sales in a single
   product market


skunk works:
   temporary teams whose creative efforts are intensive and
   focused


social welfare:
   the overall good of society


socially complex:
   resources and capabilities that involve interpersonal, social, or
   cultural links among individuals


soft signal:
   suggests that a firm will not aggressively respond to cheating on
   collusive agreements


specific international events:
   events such as civil wars, political coups, terrorism, wars
   between countries, famines, and country or regional economic
   recessions, all of which can have an enormous impact on the
   ability of a firm’s strategies to generate competitive advantage


stakeholders:
   all groups and individuals who have an interest in how a firm
   performs


standstill agreements:
   contract between a target and a bidding firm wherein the bidding
   firm agrees not to attempt to take over the target for some period
   of time


stepping-stone options:
   when firms avoid making large technology or product investments
   and instead make numerous small investments, and adjust
   quickly


stock grants:
   payments to employees in a firm’s stock

stock options:
   employees are given the right, but not the obligation, to purchase
   a firm’s stock at predetermined prices


strategic alliance:
   whenever two or more independent organizations cooperate in
   the development, manufacture, or sale of products or services; a
   form of exchange governance between market exchanges and
   hierarchical exchanges; examples include licensing
   arrangements, manufacturing agreements, and joint ventures


strategic flexibility:
   firm’s ability to choose among several different strategic options


strategic management process:
   a sequential set of analyses that can increase the likelihood of a
   firm’s choosing a strategy that generates competitive advantages


strategic options:
   when firms have the ability, but not the obligation, to invest in a
   particular strategy


strategically valuable assets:
   resources required to successfully compete in an industry,
   including access to raw materials, particularly favorable
   geographic locations, and particularly valuable product market
   positions


strategy:
   a firm’s theory about how to gain competitive advantage


strategy implementation:
   a firm adopting organizational policies and practices that are
   consistent with its strategy


structure:
   (in the structure-conduct-performance model) industry structure
   measured by such factors as the number of competitors in an
   industry, the heterogeneity of products in an industry, the cost of
   entry and exit in an industry, and so forth
structure-conduct-performance (S-C-P) model:
   theory suggesting that industry structure determines a firm’s
   conduct, which in turn determines its performance


substitutes:
   products or services that meet approximately the same customer
   needs but do so in different ways


substitution:
   developing or acquiring strategically equivalent, but different,
   resources as a competing firm


supermajority voting rules:
   an example of a shark repellent that specifies that more than 50
   percent of the target firm’s board of directors must approve a
   takeover


suppliers:
   firms that make a wide variety of raw materials, labor, and other
   critical assets available to firms


supply agreements:
   one firm agrees to supply others


sustainable distinctive competencies:
   valuable, rare, and costly-to-imitate resources or capabilities


sustained competitive advantage:
   a competitive advantage that lasts for a long period of time; an
   advantage that is not competed away through strategic imitation


tacit collusion:
   firms coordinate their production and pricing decisions not by
   directly communicating with each other, but by exchanging
   signals with other firms about their intent to cooperate; special
   case of tacit cooperation


tactics:
   the specific actions a firm takes to implement its strategies


technical economies:
   sources of relatedness in marketing, production, and similar
   activities between bidding and target firms


technical uncertainty:
   the extent to which managers understand the process by which a
   new product or service will be developed before that process is
   undertaken


technological hardware:
   the machines and other hardware used by firms


technological leadership strategy:
   firms make early investments in particular technologies in an
   industry
technological software:
   the quality of labor–management relations, an organization’s
   culture, and the quality of managerial controls in a firm


temporary competitive advantage:
   a competitive advantage that lasts for a short period of time


tender offers:
   a bidding firm offers to purchase the shares of a target firm
   directly by offering a higher-than-market price for those shares to
   current shareholders


thinly traded market:
   a market where there are only a small number of buyers and
   sellers, where information about opportunities in this market is
   not widely known, and where interests besides purely maximizing
   the value of a firm can be important


tough signal:
   suggests that a firm will aggressively respond to cheating on
   collusive agreements


transaction specific:
   whenever an investment’s value in its first-best use (in this case,
   within the alliance) is much greater than its value in its second-
   best use (in this case, outside the alliance)


transaction-specific investment:
   whenever an investment’s value in its first-best use is much
   greater than its value in its second-best use


transfer-pricing system:
   using internally administered “prices” to manage the movement of
   intermediate products or services among divisions within a firm


transnational strategy:
   actions in which a firm engages to gain competitive advantages
   by investing in technology across borders

U-form structure:
   organization where different functional heads report directly to
   CEO; used to implement business level strategies


uncertain:
   when the outcome of a decision is not known with certainty, and
   the possible outcomes associated with that decision, and their
   probability, are also not known before a decision is made


uncertainty:
   when the outcome of a decision is not known with certainty, and
   the possible outcomes associated with that decision, and their
   probability, are also not known before a decision is made


unfriendly acquisitions:
   the management of the target firm does not want the firm to be
   acquired
unrelated corporate diversification:
   less than 70 percent of a firm’s revenues is generated in a single
   product market and a firm’s businesses share few, if any,
   common attributes


value added as a percentage of sales:
   measures the percentage of a firm’s sales that are generated by
   activities done within the boundaries of a firm; a measure of
   vertical integration


value chain:
   that set of activities that must be accomplished to bring a product
   or service from raw materials to the point that it can be sold to a
   final customer


vertical integration:
   the number of steps in the value chain that a firm accomplishes
   within its boundaries


vertical merger:
   when a firm vertically integrates, either forward or backward,
   through its acquisition efforts


visionary firms:
   firms whose mission is central to all they do

VRIO framework:
   four questions that must be asked about a resource or capability
   to determine its competitive potential: the questions of value,
   rarity, imitability, and organization


weighted average cost of capital (WACC):
   the percentage of a firm’s total capital that is debt multiplied by
   the cost of debt plus the percentage of a firm’s total capital that is
   equity times the cost of equity


white knight:
   another bidding firm that agrees to acquire a particular target in
   place of the original bidding firm


winner take all strategy:
   when a firm is an early mover in a network industry and builds a
   large market share quickly, it may obtain an almost unassailable
   advantage


zero-based budgeting:
   corporate executives create a list of all capital allocation requests
   from divisions in a firm, rank them from most important to least
   important, and then fund all the projects the firm can afford, given
   the amount of capital it has available
Company Index
NOTES: In the page references, the number after “n” refers to the
number of the end note in which the name is cited.
A
ABB, Inc., 238, 269

Abbott Laboratories, 310

ABC, 72, 229–230, 233

Adidas, 314

AirBus, 41

AirTran Airlines, 82

Alibaba, 282, 306n1

Allegiant Airlines, 82

Allied Signal, 272

Alphabet, 256, 257, 259, 269, 281n1

Alta Vista, 62

Amazon, 27, 28, 34, 64, 155

America Online (AOL), 69, 244, 334

America West, 245

American Airlines, 20, 49, 82, 84, 245

American Express, 6, 174, 239
Anheuser-Busch, 38, 106

Anthem, 318

Apple, 3, 15, 16, 25n1, 26–28, 34, 39, 41, 65, 66, 79, 284, 309

Applebee’s, 54

Archer Daniels Midland (ADM), 182

Armani, 97

Ask Jeeves, 62

Ask.com, 62

AT&T, 193, 237, 246, 272
B
Baidu, 62

Baker & McKenzie, 283

Bank of America, 69, 174, 254, 318

Bavaria Brewery Company, 314

Baxala, 310

Bayer, 310

Ben & Jerry’s Ice Cream, 152, 190, 191, 200n21, 278

Benjamin Moore, 239

Berkshire Hathaway, 235, 239, 240, 255n16, 267, 278

BIC, 98–100, 114, 128, 245, 285

Big Red, 232

Bing, 62

Blu-ray Disc Association, 288

Boeing, 41, 49, 59, 81, 92, 285

Boston Beer Company, 126

Boston Consulting Group, 123n10, 123n11
Boston University, 39, 60n19

Briggs and Stratton, 272

British Airways (BA), 182

British American Tobacco, 310

British Petroleum (BP), 55

BT, 39, 60n19

Budweiser, 38, 140

Bulgari, 97

Burberry, 97

Burger King, 41, 53, 131
C
Cadillac, 238

Café Rio, 54

Campbell Soup Company, 44

Canada Dry, 132

Capital Cities/ABC, 314

Capital Cities Entertainment, 229

Casella Wines, 145

Casio, 84, 94n32, 98, 126

Caterpillar, 174, 245

CBS, 72, 230, 278

CFM, 285

Chaparral Steel, 38, 120

Charles Schwab, 107, 147

Chevrolet, 258, 296

ChevronTexaco, 314

Chili’s, 54
Chipotle, 54

Chrysler, 54, 61n54, 65, 66, 139, 194, 284, 296, 297, 307n21, 312,
333

CIBA-Geigy, 238, 291

Cirque du Soleil, 145

Cisco, 174, 283, 297, 304, 309

Clayton, Dubilier, and Rice, 267

CNN, 41, 60n26, 61n50

Coca-Cola Company, 131, 132, 153n14, 180, 200n1, 239, 272, 273

Colgate-Palmolive, 30

Compaq, 294, 307n17, 334

Continental Airlines, 82, 245

Coors, 38

Corning, 285, 291, 292, 297, 304, 306n11

Cross, 128

Crown Cork & Seal, 61n31, 61n33, 102, 123n7

CSX, 272
D
Daimler, 312, 333

Daimler-Benz, 312

DaimlerChrysler, 307n21, 312, 333

Dairy Queen, 53, 239

Danaher Corporation, 240

DeBeers, 193

Deezer, 40

Dell, 40, 116, 214–216, 218, 244, 283

Delta airlines, 41, 82, 85

Digital Research Inc. (DRI), 308

DirecTV, 46

Dish Network, 46

Disney, 6, 72, 128, 153n8, 153n11, 229, 230, 232, 233, 244, 254n1,
289, 310, 337n87

Dolce & Gabbana, 97

Donato’s Pizza, 231
Doritos, 232

Dow, 285

Dow-Corning, 285

DuckDuckGo, 62

DuPont, 51, 291, 306n9

DuPont/Philips Optical, 290
E
E. & J. Gallo Winery, 38

Eastern Airlines, 20

eBay, 69

Eli Lilly, 202, 204, 226n1

Energy Transfer Partners, 310

Enron, 5, 25n5

ESPN, 72, 74, 79, 93n12, 93n13, 130, 228–230, 235, 254n1, 314,
337n7

Excite, 62

Exxon, 314
F
Facebook, 2, 39, 60n19, 309

Farmers Insurance, 131

Federal Reserve Board, 281n7

Federal Trade Commission (FTC), 61n48, 313, 314, 318, 337n6

FedEx, 19, 25n13, 35, 131

FenXu Partners, 283

Fiat, 68, 98, 123n2, 126, 133, 312

Fiat Chrysler, 61n54, 65

5-Hour Energy, 131

FleetBoston Financial, 318

Folger’s, 245

Food and Drug Administration (FDA), 136

Foote, Coyne, and Belding, 300

Forbes, 226n1

Ford, 6, 54, 194, 284, 296, 306n2, 307n21

Fox, 41, 72, 230
Fox News, 41

Fruit of the Loom, 239

FuJae Partners, 283
G
GEICO, 131, 239

General Dynamics, 57, 61n60, 277, 281n28

General Electric (GE), 51, 61n44, 142, 180, 193, 194, 198, 200n2,
200n19, 200n36, 239, 254, 255n15, 258, 285, 306

General Motors (GM), 54, 128, 139, 160, 237, 253, 258, 286, 296,
306n3, 307n21

Gillette, 245

Global IP Solutions, 63

Goldman Sachs, 147

Goodyear, 244, 245

Google, 3, 4, 25n1, 27, 28, 34, 39, 60n19, 62–64, 93n1, 256, 257,
259, 269, 312, 314

Groove, 309
H
Harley Davidson, 65, 66

Harvard Business School, 60n15, 60n27, 61n31, 61n33, 61n46,
61n56, 61n58, 63n5, 93n3, 123n7, 123n15, 123n27, 153n14,
153n15, 153n19, 153n22, 153n23, 153n25, 170, 177n14, 200n19,
200n21, 254n3, 254n5, 254n14, 281n28, 306n3, 306n11, 307n21,
337n19

HBO, 288

Helzberg Diamonds, 239

Hewlett-Packard (HP), 6, 40, 174, 192, 237, 244, 309, 334

Holiday Inn, 50

Home Depot, 44

Honda, 54

Howard Johnson’s, 50

HTC, 39, 60n19

Hudepohl-Schoenling Brewing Company, 126

Hyundai, 92
I
IBM, 6, 65, 66, 128, 139, 142, 153n6, 193, 237, 239, 283, 284, 308,
337n1

IKEA, 191, 192, 200n22

Imperial Chemical Industries (ICI), 55, 161n56

In-N-Out Burger, 51

InBev, 38

Instagram, 2

Intel, 42, 43, 123n15, 174, 283

International Steel Group, 56

Intertrust, 39, 60n19

Investor Relations Business, 281n7

Isuzu, 284
J
J. D. Powers, 54

J. Walter Thompson, 232

Jack in the Box, 53

JD.com, 282–284

JetBlue, 82

John Deere, 245

John Hancock Financial, 318

Johnson & Johnson (J&J), 20, 25n15, 202, 267, 277, 281n28

Johnson Controls, 310

Journal of Applied Corporate Finance, 255n25, 255n38, 281n18,
281n20

Justin Brands, 239
K
Kaiser-Permanente, 107

Kampgrounds of America (KOA), 50

Kentucky Fried Chicken, 53, 237

Keyhole, 63

Kmart, 108

Kodak, 55

Kroger, 83
L
L. L. Bean, 65, 93n3

La Quinta, 50

Lacoste, 137

Leaf, Inc., 291

Lens Crafters, 96, 97

Levi Strauss’s, 237

Lexus, 139

Lockheed Corporation, 144

Los Angeles, 41, 123n22, 124, 230, 255n23

Lowe’s, 131

Lufthansa, 142

Luxotica, 96, 97, 123n1

Lycos, 62, 309
M
Major League Baseball, 182, 195, 229

Manulife Financial, 318

Marriott Corporation, 20, 25n15

Mars, 239

Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 78, 337n16

MasterCard, 193

Maui Beer Company, 126

Maxwell House, 245

Mazda, 139, 284, 296, 307n21

McDonald’s, 41, 50, 53, 54, 61n50, 131, 142, 149, 153n30

McGuireWoods, 283, 306n1

McKinsey and Company, 71, 72, 90

Mercedes, 126, 139, 312, 333

Merck, 202, 204, 284

Mexx, 137

Miami Heat, 42
Miata, 139

Michelin, 244, 245

Microsoft, 25n8, 32, 42, 43, 63, 65, 128, 174, 193, 308, 309, 333,
337n1

Mid Atlantic Medical, 318

Midas, 50

Miller, 38, 106

Miller Lite, 131

Mitsubishi, 284, 296, 297, 307n21

Mobil, 314

Monsanto, 310

Mont Blanc pen, 128

Motorola, 63, 64, 93n1, 312, 314

Mountain Dew, 130, 140, 232

MTV, 130, 153n11

MySpace, 309
N
NASCAR, 131

National Basketball Association, 229

National Football League (NFL), 72, 74, 229, 230

National Hockey League (NHL), 228, 229

NBC, 72, 74, 230

NCAA, 229

Nestlé, 238, 258, 300

Netflix, 154–156, 177n1

New England Whalers, 228

New York Yankees, 92

Newscorporation, 309

Newsweek, 41

Newsweek, 41

Nextel, 334

Niantic Labs, 3, 4

Nike, 42, 71, 93n10, 108
Nintendo, 2–4, 25n1

Nissan, 54, 139, 297, 307n21

Nokia, 39, 39n19, 309

Nordstrom, 147

Novartis, 204

Novell, 303

Nucor Steel, 38, 83, 118, 120

NUMMI, 286
O
Oakland A’s, 115

Old Milwaukee Beer, 126

Oldsmobile, 238

Oracle, 60n5, 129, 278, 314
P
Panasonic, 289

Pandora, 26, 27, 40

Panera Bread, 54

Paramount, 289

Pearle Vision, 96, 97

PeopleSoft, 314

PepsiCo, 130, 132, 180, 232, 237, 254n2

Peter Arnold, Inc., 226n1

Pfizer, 284

Philip Morris, 319

Philips Optical, 290

Pokemon Go, 2–4, 25n1

Porsche, 139

Prada, 97

Procter & Gamble, 51, 85, 235

Progressive Insurance, 156
Publicis, 300

Pure Digital, 309
Q
Quaker Oats, 272
R
Ralph Lauren, 97

RC Wiley, 239

RealNetworks, 26

Reebok, 314

Renault, 300

Reynolds American, 310

Rhapsody, 26, 40

Rolex, 84, 126

Rolls-Royce, 133

Royal Dutch Shell, 51

Ryanair, 98, 115, 116
S
SABMiller, 314

Safeway, 83

Sainsbury, 182

St. Jude Medical, 310

Samsung, 39, 284, 289

SAP, 129

Sears Optical, 96

Seattle Computer Products, 308

Service Corporation International (SCI), 50, 327–328, 337n21

Shire, 310

Skybus Airlines, 82

Skype, 69, 309, 337n1

Slacker Radio, 26

Snapchat, 2

SNECMA, 285

Softbank, 334
Sony, 6, 28, 60n19, 68, 69, 79, 81, 85, 93n8, 94n31, 94n35

Sony Music, 28

Southwest Airlines, 65, 81–84, 93n5, 142

Specific Media Group, 309

Spirit Airlines, 82

Spotify, 26, 28, 40, 60n1

Sprint, 334

SprintNextel, 334

Star Alliance, 142

Stern Stewart, 271

Stouffer’s, 133

Stroh Brewery Company, 126

Sunglass Hut, 97

Sunoco Logistics, 310

Swanson, 133
T
Taco Bell, 53, 131

Target, 83, 96, 315, 322–323, 328–332

Terra Networks, 309

Texas Instruments, 235

3M, 5, 6, 69, 93n8, 145, 146

Tiffany, 97

Time, 41

Time Warner, 69, 93n9, 244, 334

Timex, 98, 126

Tinder, 2

Toshiba, 288, 289

Toyota, 54, 65, 66, 128, 286, 287, 296, 307n21

TTI, 239

Twitter, 2

Tyco International, 261, 310
U
United Airlines, 41, 82, 142, 245

United States Steel, 56

UnitedHealth, 318

Universal, 28

University of Colorado, 229

University of Connecticut, 228

Unocal, 314

UPS, 35

U.S. Department of Defense, 43

U.S. Post Office, 35

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), 325

U.S. Steel, 35, 290
V
Valentino, 97

Versace, 97, 150, 153n34

Viacom, Inc., 130, 278

Victoria’s Secret, 124–126

Virgin Air, 182

Virgin American Airlines, 82
W
Wal-Mart, 44, 51, 61n46, 65, 83, 93n3, 94n19, 115, 116, 120, 126,
137, 174, 210, 214, 282–284, 306n1

The Wall Street Journal, 25n5, 60–61n29, 60n7, 60n18, 61n50,
93n9, 94n19, 94n28, 153n2, 153n11, 153n17–19, 153n30, 153n34,
254n6, 254n8, 255n34, 266n1, 306n2, 306n9, 307n17, 307n21, 327,
337n12

Walt Disney, 229, 254n3

Warby Parker, 97, 98, 104, 123n1, 126

Warner Music, 28

WD-40 Company, 231

Welch Foods, Inc., 291

Wellpoint, 318

Wells Fargo, 239

Wendy’s, 41, 53, 69

Westinghouse, 180, 198, 200n2, 200n19, 200n39

WhatsApp, 48

Windows, 42, 48, 128, 308
Word Perfect, 333

World Trade Organization (WTO), 248

WPP, 143, 144, 153n23, 323, 337n19

www.blu-ray.com, 306n6
X
Xerox, 51, 61n44, 135
Y
Yahoo!, 6, 25n8, 36, 39, 60n19, 62, 309

Yale University, 19

Yihaodian, 282, 306n1

YouTube, 63, 93n1, 155, 256
Z
Zara, 137

Zydus, 204, 226n1
Name Index
Notes: In the page references, the number after “n” refers to the
number of the end note in which the name is cited
A
Agins, T., 150n34

Aguilar, F. J., 55n56, 277n28

Alchian, A., 207n4, 284n18

Alley, J., 75n18

Alvarez, S. A., 287n4

Amit, R., 12n, 12n11, 79n30, 250n38

Anders, G., 69n9

Angwin, J., 136n19

Ansoff, H. I., 237

Anton, J., 182n8

Arikan, A., 318n10

Armour, H. O., 258n2

Armstrong, L., 142n21

Arthur, W. B., 74n17, 75n18

Artz, K. W., 64n2

Axelrod, R. M., 296n20
B
Bacon, N., 186n14

Badaracco, J. L., 284n3, 297n21

Bain, J. S., 32n9, 36n13

Balakrishnan, S., 292n13, 292n14

Barnett, W. P., 64n2

Barney, J., 35n12, 68n7, 235n4, 250n38

Barney, J. B., 8n9, 32n9, 32n10, 64n2, 73n14, 76n21, 76n24, 78n29,
114n23, 209n6, 222n14, 243n22, 250n38, 287n4, 290, 290n8,
292n15, 297n22, 298n26, 299n27, 302n28, 302n29, 304n34, 313n6,
321n17

Bart, C. K., 5n3

Bartlett, C., 269n14, 297n24

Bartlett, C. A., 239n14, 292n11

Baughn, C. C., 292n15

Baum, J. A. C., 245n28

Beatty, R., 302n30

Beatz Bartkus, B., 5n3
Becker, G. S., 65n4, 221n13

Bennis, W. G., 89n37

Berg, N. A., 100n3

Berg, P. O., 76n23

Berger, P. G., 243n25

Bergh, D., 264n9

Bernheim, R. D., 188n17, 245n28

Berstein, A., 195n32

Bertrand, J., 185n13

Besanko, D., 8n9, 102n5, 184n10

Bethel, J., 264n9

Bethel, J. E., 243n23, 270n16

Bettis, R. A., 240n18

Bhambri, A., 277n28

Black, F., 161n10

Blackwell, R. D., 328n21

Bleeke, J., 297n22, 297n23, 304n34, 304n35

Blois, K. J., 304n34

Blumenthal, N., 96, 97n1
Bock, A. J., 12n, 12n11

Bond, R. S., 51n48

Bower, J., 323n19

Bower, J. L., 55n56

Bowman, E., 157n6

Boyd, B. K., 263n4

Brachmen, S., 39n20

Bradey, M., 323n22

Braeutigam, R., 102n5, 184n10

Brandenburger, A., 8n9, 45n34

Brealy, R., 157n5, 168n13

Brennan, M., 244n27

Bresnahan, T. F., 51n44

Bresser, R. K., 293n16

Brickley, J., 274n23

Bright, A. A., 51n44

Brin, S., 63

Bromiley, P., 64n2

Brown, S. J., 318n10
Brush, T. H., 64n2

Bryan, E., 30n7

Buffett, W., 240

Burgers, W. P., 289n7, 292n12

Butler, J. K., Jr, 304n34

Buzzell, R. D., 106n14
C
Camerer, C., 302n29

Cameron, K. S., 319n14

Campbell, E., 301n

Cantrell, R. S., 304n34

Carlisle, K., 108n19

Carnevale, M. L., 246n34

Carney, M., 304n34

Carroll, P., 128n6

Cartwright, S., 333n23

Ca-son, K., 5n3

Cason, P., 5n3

Cauley, L., 42n29

Caves, R. E., 127n3

Chamberlin, E., 134, 135, 135n16

Chan Kim, W., 145n25

Chandler, A., 258n2
Chartier, J., 41n26, 53n50

Chatterjee, S., 333n23

Chen, M.-J., 245n28

Chew, D., 271n18

Chiles, T. H., 304n34

Christensen, C., 56n58

Christensen, C. R., 100n3

Coase, R., 207, 207n3

Cockburn, I., 39n23, 64n2, 76n21, 131n12

Cohen, W., 287n4

Collins, J., 89n37

Collins, J. C., 6n6, 6n7, 20n15

Comment, R., 235n4, 243n25

Conner, K., 49n38

Conner, K. R., 64n2, 209n6

Cookson, R., 28n1

Cool, K., 64n2, 74n16, 74n17

Cooper, C., 333n23

Copeland, T., 18n, 18n12, 161n9, 172n15
Cowling, K., 129n9

Cox, J., 244n27

Cox, M., 42n29

Coyne, W., 146n

Crawford, R., 207n4, 284n18

Cubbin, J., 129n9

Cyert, R., 275n24
D
Dalton, D., 263n4

Dann, L. Y., 323n22

D’Aveni, R., 263n4, 263n5

Davidson, J. H., 51n48

Davis, P., 238n9

Davis, S. M., 118n26

Dawley, H., 108n19

de Colle, S., 18n, 18n12

de Lisser, E., 237n8

DeAngelo, H., 323n22

DeFillippi, R. J., 76n19

DeGeorge, R., 108n19

Delaney, K. J., 204n1

Demetrakakes, P., 53n51

Demsetz, H., 32n10, 249n37

Dent-Micallef, A., 64n2
Deogun, N., 319n12

Der Hovanseian, M., 318n10

Deutsch, C. H., 142n21

DeWitt, W., 43n31

Dial, J., 57n60, 277n28

Dierickx, I., 64n2, 74n16, 74n17

Dobie, A., 39n19

Dodd, P., 321n16

Donaldson, L., 18n, 18n12

Donoho, R., 193n25

Dotson, J., 235n4

Douglas, M., 310

Dranove, D., 8n9

Drucker, P., 4n2

Duell, C. H., 28

Duffy, M., 271n17

Dumaine, B., 267n11

Dyer, J. H., 76n21
E
Eaton, J., 188n17

Eccles, R., 274n23, 275n, 275n24

Edgeworth, F., 188n15

Edmondson, G., 108n19, 312n3

Edwards, C. D., 194n26, 245n28

Eger, C. E., 321n16

Eichenseher, J., 302n30

Eihhorn, B., 204n1

El Mallakh, R., 194n28

Ellwood, J., 334n25

Elms, H., 47n36

Emshwiller, J., 5n5

Engardio, P., 204n1, 215n10

Engers, M., 188n17

Ennis, P., 297n21

Epstein, Z., 40n25
Eriksson, K., 304n34

Ernst, D., 297n22, 297n23, 304n34, 304n35
F
Fama, E. F., 312n5

Farjoun, M., 239n13

Farnham, A., 76n19

Fatsis, S., 42n29

Fingas, J., 39n19

Finkelstein, S., 246n36, 263n4, 263n5

Finn, E. A., 56n59

Firth, M., 321n16

Floyd, S., 274n21

Floyd, S. W., 119n28

Folta, T., 212, 212n8

Folta, T. B., 292n12

Fornell, C., 51n46

Foust, D., 318n10

Freeland, R. F., 258n2

Freeman, A., 291n9
Freeman, E., 18n, 18n12

Freeman, J., 64n2

Friedman, J. S., 71n10

Fritz, B., 230n1

Fuchsberg, G., 237n6

Fudenberg, D., 190n20
G
Galai, D., 244n27

Gale, B. T., 106n14

Galloni, A., 150n34

Gannon, M. J., 84n34

Garud, R., 145n26

Gates, B., 65

Geffen, D., 64n2

George, G., 12n, 12n11

Ghemawat, P., 38n15, 41n27, 51n42, 51n46, 65n3, 107n15, 118n27,
132n15

Ghoshal, S., 239n14, 269n14, 297n24

Gibson, R., 53n50, 149n30

Gilbeau, D., 96, 97, 97n1

Gilbert, R. J., 51n43

Gilboa, I., 160n8

Gilmartin, R., 5n5
Gimeno, J., 245n28, 245n30, 245n31, 245n32, 251n39

Giong, V., 29n4

Glassman, M., 5n3

Golden, B., 267n11

Gomes-Casseres, B., 55n56

Gomez, A., 107n15

Gomez-Mejia, L., 76n21

Govindarajan, V., 276n25

Granovetter, M., 302n29

Grant, L., 319n12

Grant, R. M., 71n11, 76n22, 239n13

Gray, B., 295n19

Greckhamer, T., 47n36

Green, E. J., 188n17

Greve, H. R., 64n2

Grimm, C. M., 84n34, 245n28

Gross, N., 51n48

Grossman, G., 183n9

Gulati, R., 64n2, 292n15, 302n30
Gunther, M., 128n8

Gupta, A. K., 220n12, 276n25
H
Hackman, J. R., 103n8

Hagedoorn, J., 287n25, 292n15

Halal, W., 269n13

Hall, G., 104n12

Hall, R. L., 188n17

Hallowell, R. H., 65n5

Hambrick, D., 76n24

Hambrick, D. C., 246n36

Hamel, G., 238, 238n12

Hamermesh, R. G., 102n7

Hanke, J., 3, 4

Hansen, G. S., 264n8

Hansen, M. H., 297n22, 302n29, 304n34

Haricento, F., 323n22

Harrigan, K., 206n2

Harrigan, K. R., 56n57
Harris, L. C., 77n25

Harrison, J., 18n, 18n12

Harrison, J. S., 235n5

Hart, A., 96

Hasegawa, N., 284n3, 297n21

Haspeslagh, P., 334n26

Hatfield, D. D., 76n22

Hay, D., 129n9

Hayes, R. H., 54n53

Heady, R., 5n3

Hellpman, E., 183n9

Henderson, B., 104n11

Henderson, R., 39n23, 64n2, 131n12

Henderson, R. M., 76n21

Hendrickx, M., 64n2

Hennart, J. F., 141n20, 299n27

Henry, D., 318n10

Heskett, J. L., 65n5

Hesterly, W. S., 114n22
Hill, C. W. L., 104n13, 149n29, 264n8, 289n7, 292n12

Hirshleifer, J., 181n4

Hitch, C. J., 188n17

Hoang, H., 302n30

Hodgetts, R., 30n8

Holder, D., 65n3

Holm, D. B., 304n34

Holmstrom, B., 292n15

Hotelling, H., 128n7, 188n17

Houston, J., 243n25

Howell, S., 104n12

Hudson, R., 291n9

Huey, J., 314n7

Hurry, D., 157n6

Hurstak, J. M., 190n21

Huselid, M., 78n29

Huston, T. L., 304n34

Hybels, R. C., 302n30
I
Itami, H., 39n22, 76n20

Iverson, K., 118
J
Jacob, R., 50n39

Jacobsen, D., 333n24

James, C., 243n25

Jandik, T., 246n35

Jankik, T., 198n35

Jarrell, G., 235n4, 243n25

Jemison, D., 334n26

Jemison, D. B., 325n20

Jensen, M. C., 261n3, 277n27, 313n6, 315, 317n9, 319n13

Jobs, S., 65

Johanson, J., 304n34

John, C. H., 235n5

Johnson, R. B., 263n4

Jones, D. I., 78n29, 150n32
K
Kalleberg, A. L., 302n30

Kanabayashi, M., 297n21

Karnani, A., 245n28, 245n29

Karnitschnig, M., 69n9

Keenan, M., 244n27

Kent, D. H., 292n15

Kesner, I. F., 263n4, 263n6

Kessler, F., 156n4

Khosrowshahi, D., 278

Kiley, D., 98n2

Kim, W. C., 145, 289n7, 292n12

Klebnikov, P., 56n58

Klein, B., 76n24, 130n10, 207n4, 284n18

Klemperer, P., 51n47

Knight, F. H., 292n12

Kogut, B., 39n21, 157n6, 211n7, 292n12, 292n13, 299n27
Koller, T., 18n, 18n12

Korn, H. J., 245n28

Korten, D. C., 249n37

Kosnik, R. D., 323n22

Kotler, P., 132n13

Koza, M., 292n13, 292n14

Kozlowski, D., 261

Kripalani, M., 204n1, 215n10

Krogh, L., 69n8

Kupfer, A., 65n3
L
Labich, K., 41n28

Laffer, A., 206n2

Laing, J. R., 65n3

Lamattina, J., 204n1

Lamb, R., 64n2, 77n27

Lambert, R., 261n3

Lamont, O., 274n22

Lang, H. P., 234, 235, 235n4, 267n11

Larson, A., 302n30

Larzelere, R. E., 304n34

Lau, L. J., 100n4

Lawler, R., 46n35

Lawless, M., 76n21

Lawrence, P. R., 118n26

Lean, D. F., 51n48

Lee, L., 71n10
Leffler, K., 76n24, 130n10

Lefton, T., 314n7

Leiblein, M., 212n8

Lepine, J. A., 47n36

Levinthal, D., 64n2, 287n4

Lieberman, M., 50n41

Lieberman, M. B., 76n26, 115n24, 128n5

Liebeskind, J., 264n9

Liebeskind, J. P., 76n22, 242n21

Liedtka, J. M., 239n13

Lipman, S., 73n14

Lipparini, A., 64n2, 304n34

Long, M., 323n22

Loomis, C. J., 238n10

Lorenzoni, G., 64n2, 304n34

Lubatkin, M., 313n6, 315, 318n11, 333n23

Luehrman, T., 166n
M
Ma, H., 245n28

Mackey, A., 278n29

Mackey, T., 235n4

MacMillan, I., 169, 170, 171n14

Mahoney, J., 212, 212n8

Mahoney, J. T., 64n2, 74n16

Maijoor, S., 64n2

Main, O. W., 51n46

Majumdar, S., 64n2

Makadok, R., 64n2

Makhiga, A., 198n35

Makhija, A. K., 246n35

Maksimovic, V., 243n25

Malseed, M., 64n1

Mandel, M., 49n38

Mansfield, E., 51n45, 115n24
March, J. G., 275n24

Marcus, A., 64n2

Markham, J. W., 194n29

Markides, C., 239n13

Marriott, J. W., 20

Maskin, E., 188n17

Mason, E. S., 32n9

Massa, L., 12n, 12n11

Masulis, R. W., 244n27

Matsusaka, J. G., 243n25

Mauborgne, R., 145, 145n25

McAfee, B., 5n3

McCormick, J., 107n15

McCracken, J., 284n2

McGahan, A., 10, 10n, 10n10, 41n27

McGrath, R. C., 169, 170, 171n14

McGrath, R. G., 245n28

McKnight, W., 146

McMackin, J. F., 304n34
Meckling, W. H., 261n3

Merced, M., 38n17

Meyer, M. W., 114n20

Mikkelson, W. H., 321n16

Miles, R. H., 319n14

Miller, D., 64n2, 212n8, 235

Miller, J., 72n12

Miller, K., 250n38

Mintzberg, H., 20n14, 265n10

Misangyi, V. F., 47n36

Mitchell, W., 297n25

Mohr, J., 304n36

Monteverde, K., 107n15

Montgomery, C., 50n41, 106, 106n14

Montgomery, C. A., 38n16, 239n13, 318n11

Montgomery, D. B., 51n48, 76n26, 128n5

Moore, F. T., 100n4

Morris, D., 129n9

Morris, P., 319
Mueller, D. C., 10, 10n, 10n10

Munger, C., 240

Murphy, K. J., 57n60, 277n27, 277n28

Murrin, J., 18n, 18n12

Myatt, J., 64n2

Myers, S., 157n5, 168n13
N
Nagarajan, A., 297n25

Nalebuff, B., 45n34

Nanda, A., 292n11

Nanda, V., 243n25

Narula, R., 292n15

Nee, E., 192n23

Nelson, E., 76n19

Newbery, D. M., 51n43

Newburry, W., 297n25

Nickel Anhalt, K., 108n19

Nickerson, J. A., 64n2

Noldeke, G., 292n12

Norton, E., 42n29

Nowak, P., 290, 290n8
O
Ofek, E., 243n25

Ogbonna, E., 77n25

Oldham, G. R., 103n8

Ono, Y., 126n2

Opler, T. C., 76n22

Orosz, J. J., 144n24

Ortega-Reichert, A., 188n17

Osborn, R. N., 292n15

Osterwalder, A., 12, 12n, 12n11

Ouchi, W. G., 292n15, 293n16, 302n28

Ozzie, R., 309
P
Pacelle, M., 42n29

Page, L., 63

Palia, D., 243n25

Palmer, K., 137n18, 198n35

Pandian, J. R., 64n2, 74n16

Paré, T. P, 42n29

Park, D. Y., 64n2

Park, S., 238n9

Parmar, B., 18n, 18n12

Patterson, G. A., 297n21

Pearce, J., 238n9

Pearce, J. A., II, 263n6

Perrow, C., 101n6

Perry, L. T., 243n22

Perry, N. J., 43n32, 57n60

Peteraf, M. A., 8n9, 64n2, 74n16
Peters, T., 89n37

Pfeffer, J., 290, 290n8

Phillips, G., 243n25

Pigneur, Y., 12, 12n, 12n11

Pisano, G. P., 64n2

Polanyi, M., 39n22

Polley, D., 145n26

Pollock, E. J., 42n29

Pope, K., 42n29, 294n17

Porras, J., 76n23, 89n37

Porras, J. I., 6n6, 6n7, 20n15

Porter, M., 8n9, 10, 10n, 10n10, 32n10, 182n6

Porter, M. E., 32n9, 34n11, 47n37, 50n40, 53n49, 54n55, 76n24,
127, 127n3, 132n14, 149n28, 150n33, 189n19, 235n5, 237

Porter, R. H., 188n17

Position, L. L., 147n27

Powell, T. C., 64n2

Praeger, J., 69n8

Prahalad, C. K., 209n6, 238, 238n12, 240n18
Priem, R., 274n21
Q
Quinn, J., 53n51
R
Raider, J., 96

Rajan, R., 243n25

Rapoport, C., 238n11

Rargue, M, 169

Rechner, P., 263n4

Reed, R., 76n19

Reilly, P. M., 42n29

Resch, I., 108n19

Reuer, J., 301n

Reve, T., 302n30

Ricardo, D., 66, 67n6, 128n7

Ries, A., 51n48

Ritter, R., 302n30

Roberts, P., 64n2

Roberts, P. W., 10n10

Robichaux M., 130n11
Robinson, E., 76n19

Robinson, J., 134, 135, 135n16

Robinson, R., 238n9

Robinson, W. T., 51n46

Rogers, A., 235n5

Roll, R., 320n15

Roos, D., 78n29, 150n32

Rosenbloom, R. S., 56n58, 102n7

Ross, S., 244n27

Roth, K., 64n2

Ruback, R. S., 313n6, 315, 317n9, 321n16

Rubinstein, M., 244n27

Rugman, A., 30n8

Rumelt, D., 106

Rumelt, R., 73n14, 106n14, 267n11

Rumelt, R. P., 47n36, 77n27, 237

Russo, M. V., 246n35
S
Sadowski, B., 287n25

Salter, M. S., 100n3

Sastre, I, 28n1

Scherer, F. M., 40n24, 100n4, 101n6, 189n18, 290, 290n8, 303n33

Schiller, Z., 193n25

Schine, E., 196n33

Schlender, B. R., 69n8, 85n35

Schmalansee, R., 194n26

Schmeidler, D., 160n8

Schmidt, K. M., 292n12

Schoemaker, P. J. H., 79n30

Scholes, M., 161n10

Schonfeld, E., 107n17

Schultz, E., 107n16

Schwab, C., 107, 147

Schwartz, M., 51n45
Schweiger, D., 333n23

Scott, J. H., 244n24

Sengul, M., 245n32, 251n39

Servaes, H., 243n25

Serwer, A. E., 319n12

Shaffer, R. A., 107n15

Shales, T., 72n12

Shamsie, J., 64n2

Shane, S. A., 292n15

Shanley, M., 8n9, 258n2

Shields, D., 302n30

Shin, H. H., 243n25, 274n22

Silverman, B. S., 64n2

Simons, R., 269n14

Singh, H., 76n21, 292n15, 318n11, 323n22

Sitkin, S. B., 325n20

Sjostrom, W., 49n38

Smith, A., 207

Smith, C., 274n23
Smith, F., 19, 245n31

Smith, K. G., 84n34, 245n28

Smith, L., 57n60

Smith, M., 5n3

Smith, R., 5n5

Solomon, D., 5n5

Sorenson, D., 69n8

Sorkin, A. R., 38n17

Sorrel, M., 323

Spekman, R., 304n36

Spence, A. M., 115n24

Spender, J. C., 76n22, 195n31

Stander, H. J., III, 38n15, 107n15, 118n27

Stapleton, R. C., 244n27

Staw, B. M., 114n21, 243n24

Stecklow, S., 38n18

Steele-Carlin, S., 216n11

Stein, J. C., 274n22

Steinberg, D., 72n13
Stem, G., 42n29

Stern, J., 271n18

Stern, R., 156n4

Stewart, B., 271n18

Stewart, S., 271

Stewart, T., 76n22

Stoll, J., 54n54

Stone, N., 107n15

Stuart, T. E., 8n9, 302n30

Stucker, K., 245n28

Stulz, R. M., 234, 235, 235n4, 243n25, 250n38, 267n11, 274n22

Sultan, R. M., 106n14

Sweezy, P. M., 188n17

Swieringa, R. J., 275n24, 276n26
T
Tabuchi, H., 79n30

Tamura, S., 100n4

Teece, D., 107n15, 258n2

Teitelbaum, R. S., 291n10

Tesler, L., 49n38

Theroux, J., 190n21

Thompson, J. W., 323

Thurm, S., 77n28

Tirole, J., 188n17, 190n20, 245n28, 246n33, 303n32

Tomlinson, J., 69n8

Townsend, R., 89n37

Trautwein, I., 313n6

Trimble, V., 19n13

Trout, J., 51n48

Tucker, I., 206n2

Tufona, P., 172n15
Tully, S., 42n30, 271n18, 272n19

Turk, T. A, 322n18

Tyler, B., 76n21
U
Useem, J., 261n3
V
Van de Ven, A., 145n26

Van Witteloostuijn, A., 64n2

Varaiya, N., 321n16

Venkatraman, N., 304n34, 304n36

Venkatraman, S., 145n26

Villalonga, B., 235n4

Vise, D., 64n1

von Stackelberg, H., 188n16

Vroom, G., 28n1
W
Wagner, S., 51n45

Wakeman, L., 323n22

Walkling, R., 323n22

Walsh, J., 323n22, 334n25

Walter, G., 313n6

Walton, S., 120n30

Wang, H., 250n38

Waring, G. F., 10, 10n, 10n10

Warner, J. B., 318n10

Waterhouse, J. H., 275n24, 276n26

Waterman, R., 89n37

Wayland, R., 132n14

Weber, Y., 333n23

Weigelt, K, 302n29

Weintraub, A., 29n3, 204n1

Weiss, L., 194n26
Welch, D., 312n3

Welsh, J., 135n17

Wensley, R., 106

Wernerfelt, B., 38n16, 51n47, 106, 106n14, 239n13, 245n28,
245n29, 250n38

Westley, F., 265n10, 274n22

Weston, J., 161n9

Westphal, J. D., 64n2, 263n4

Whalberg, M., 288

Wheelwright, S. G., 54n53

Whinston, M. D., 188n17, 245n28

White, E., 137n18

White, L. J., 194n30, 244n27

Wicks, A., 18n, 18n12

Wilder, R. P., 206n2

Williams, M., 297n21

Williamson, O., 117n25, 207n4

Williamson, O. E., 241n19, 258n2, 292n15, 294n18

Williamson, P., 127n3
Williamson, P. J., 239n13

Willig, R., 194n26

Wilson, R., 245n31

Wingfield, N., 39n19

Witsil, F., 214n9

Woldridge, B., 119n28

Womack, J. P., 78n29, 150n32

Woo, C. Y., 245n28

Wooldridge, B., 274n21

Wright, P., 78n29
Y
Yan, A., 295n19

Yao, D., 182n8

Yeoh, P.-L., 64n2

Yoffie, D., 142n22

Young, G., 245n28
Z
Zaheer, A., 304n34, 304n36

Zahra, S. A., 263n6

Zajac, E., 64n2, 263n4

Zander, U., 39n21

Zeira, Y., 297n25

Zimmerman, J., 274n23

Zingales, L., 243n25

Zott, C., 12n, 12n11

Zucker, L. B., 114n20
Subject Index
A
Above average accounting performance, 15, 19, 32

Above normal economic performance, 17, 19, 104, 109

Absorptive capacity, 287

Access to raw materials, 39–40, 65, 107, 134–135

Accounting performance measures, 11, 14, 270–271, 325

Accounting ratios, 11, 15

Account receivable turnover ratio, 14

Acquisition premiums, 311

Acquisitions, defined, 311. See also Mergers and acquisitions

Activity ratios, 14, 15

Activity sharing. See Shared activities

Adverse selection, 12, 13

AdWords program, Google, 63

African Americans, demographic trends among, 30

Agency problems, 261, 320

Agency relationships, 261
Agents, 261

Agreements

    contracts, 300–301

    licensing, 284

    standstill, 329–330

    supply and distribution, 284

Agriculture industry, 44

Airline industry. See also specific airlines

    competition in, 41

    hub-and-spoke systems in, 41

    product differentiation in, 142

    tacit collusion in, 180

Alcohol. See Beer industry; Wine industry

Alignment of business functions and cost leadership strategies, 119

Alliances. See Strategic alliances

Allocation of capital, 241–242, 245, 251, 273–274

Aluminum industry, 43, 299

Amazon, 26–28, 34

Ambiguity, causal, 75–76, 77, 94n19
American Express, 6

America Online (AOL), 334

Analysis. See also Opportunity analysis

    event study, 317

    internal and external, 7

    value chains, 71, 204

Animated motion picture industry, 232

Anticompetitive economies of scope, 244–246

Anti-takeover actions, 329–332

AOL (America Online), 334

Apartheid, 71

Apple Inc., 26

    accounting performance, 15–16

    in music download industry, 26–28

    organizational structure, 79

    resources and capabilities, 65

Apple’s iTunes, 26

Appliances (home) industry, 53

Archer Daniels Midland (ADM), 182
Architectural competencies, 131, 141

Asia, outsourcing to, 202

Assets

    intangible, 60n21, 64, 293

    strategically valuable, 51

    tangible, 64

ATC. See Average total cost

AT&T, antitrust suits against, 193

Auctions, 331

Audi, 139

Audit committees, 263

Automotive industry. See also specific automakers

    cost leadership strategies in, 98, 149–150

    customer service in, 142

    demographic trends influencing, 30

    process innovation in, 54

    product differentiation in, 126, 128, 139, 149, 150

    socially complexity resources in, 78

    strategic alliances in, 284, 286, 296–297
Average accounting performance, 15

Average collection period ratio, 14

Average industry performance, 44–45

Average total cost (ATC), 67, 110, 134–135
B
Baby boomers, 29

Backward vertical integration, 44, 111, 204

Balance sheet statements, 11

Banking industry, 319

Bankruptcy

    airline industry and, 81, 98

    diversification strategies and, 244

    mergers and acquisitions and, 319

Barrier-busting activities, 37

Barriers to entry

    cost-based, 38–40, 112

    defined, 36

    economies of scale as, 36–38

    government policy as, 40

    height of, 36, 60n13

    product differentiation as, 38
Bases of product differentiation, 127–132

Bauxite mining, 295, 303

Beer industry

    consolidation of, 106

    product differentiation in, 38, 126, 140, 153n2

Below average accounting performance, 19

Below normal economic performance, 17, 19

Ben & Jerry, collusion and, 190

Berkshire Hathaway, 235, 239–240, 267, 278

Bertrand cheating, 185–186

BIC Corporation, 98–100, 114, 128, 245

Bicycle industry, 130, 140

Bidding firms

    returns to, 317–321

    rules for managers, 321–328

Bidding wars, 326

“Big box” retailers, 41

Biotechnology, 29, 172, 284, 292

Black-Scholes
    formula, 161

    model for valuing financial options, 161–162

“Blue ocean” markets, 145

Board chairs, 265

Board of directors, 259–260, 263

Brand identification, 38

Brazil, cultural trends in, 30

“Bricks and clicks” business models, 12

British Airways, 182

Budgeting process, 219–220, 273

Business cycles, 31

Business-level strategies, 7, 98, 204. See also Cost leadership
strategies; Product differentiation strategies

Business model canvas, 12–13

Business Model Generator (Osterwalder & Pigneur), 12

Business models, defined, 12

Buyers

    caveat emptor,136

    cost leadership strategies and, 109, 111
defined, 43

threats from, 43–44, 133
C
Cable television, 219

Call centers, 212–214

Campgrounds industry, 50

Canada Dry, 132

Can manufacturers, 43, 44, 102

Capabilities. See Resources and capabilities

Capabilities-based theory of the firm, 226n6

Capital

    allocation of, 241–242, 245, 251, 273–274

    cost of, 16–17

    sources of, 16

Capital asset pricing model (CAPM), 159

CAR (cumulative abnormal return), 317

Cars. See Automotive industry

Cash bonuses, 223

Cash flow per share ratio, 14
Casio, 84, 98, 126

Casual dining restaurants, 126

Causal ambiguity, 75–77, 94n19

Caveat emptor (buyers beware), 136

CEOs. See Chief executive officers

Chairman of the board, 260

Channels of distribution, 132, 141

Charles Schwab brokerage firm, 107, 147

Cheating in strategic alliances, 292–295, 302–303

Chief executive officers (CEOs), 117–119, 218–221, 262–263, 265,
278

Chief operating officers (COOs), 265

China, cultural trends in, 30

Choices, strategic, 7

Chrysler

    mergers, 312, 333

    product differentiation by, 127, 139

    strategic alliances, 284, 296, 297

Closely held firms, 311
Closing deal quickly, 326

Coca-Cola Corporation

    distribution channels, 132

    divisional performance of, 273

    product differentiation by, 131

Collective learning, 238

Collusion, 178–200, 244–245, 289, 290

    agreements, cheating on, 185–188

    Bertrand cheating, 185–186

    Cournot cheating, 186–188

    defined, 180

    explicit, 180, 189

    industry attributes and threat of cheating, 189–196

    organizational efficiency, 197–198

    organizational self-discipline, 198

    organizing to implement tacit, 197–198

    other forms of cheating, 186

    reducing threats, 182–184

    strategies, rarity and costly to imitate, 196–197
    sustained competitive advantage and, 184–197

    tacit, 180, 189

    threats and SCP model, 182–184

    value of, 182–184

Collusive agreement

    cost homogeneity, 194

    entry barriers, 196

    high order frequency and small order size, 193–194

    industry social structure, 195

    large inventories and order backlogs, 196

    price leader, 194

    product homogeneity, 194

    small number of firms in an industry and, 192–194

Commitment, escalation of, 114, 243

Compaq Computer Corporation, 294

Compensation policies

    corporate diversification implementation and, 277

    cost leadership implementation and, 117, 120

    defined, 78
    product differentiation implementation and, 143, 147–148

    strategy implementation and, 8

    vertical integration implementation and, 221–223

Competencies. See also Core competencies

    architectural, 131, 141

    distinctive, 80, 81

Competition. See also Environmental threats; Rivalry

    direct, 40–41

    firm performance and, 35

    monopolistic, 35, 134–135

    multipoint, 244–246, 251

    perfect, 32, 35

    price, 41

Competitive advantages. See also Sustained competitive
advantages; Temporary competitive advantages

    accounting performance and, 11, 14–19

    defined, 8, 11, 25n9

    economic performance and, 11, 16–18

    ethical considerations, 32
    external environment and, 26–61 (See also External
    environment)

    learning-curve economies and, 104–105, 112, 114

    measures of, 11, 14–19

    resource-based view on, 88

    resources and capabilities, 62–94 (See also Resources and
    capabilities)

    responses by other firms to, 83–86

    responsibility for, 86–88

    sources of, 8–9

    types of, 9

Competitive disadvantages, 9, 15, 17, 19

Competitive dynamics, 83–86

Competitive parity, 9, 15, 17, 19, 88

Complementary resources and capabilities, 79

Complementors, 45–46

Complexity. See also Socially complex resources

    of products, 127, 128, 139

    of resources, 74, 76–78, 89

Computer industry. See also Software industry
    competition in, 41

    customer service in, 132

    strategic alliances in, 294

    supplier leverage in, 42

    switching costs in, 51

    vertical integration in, 204

Conduct, defined, 33

Conflict resolution, 219

Conglomerate mergers, 314

Conscious parallelism, 189

Consolidation strategies, 49–50, 327

Consumer electronics industry, 40, 56, 79, 85, 290

Consumer marketing, 130, 140

Consumers. See Buyers

Contracts in strategic alliances, 300–301

Controlling shares, 311

Convenience food industry, 54

COOs (chief operating officers), 265

Core competencies
    as an economy of scope, 238–241

    corporate diversification strategies and, 238–241, 251

    defined, 238

    limits of, 240–241

    shared activities and, 240

Corning, 291–292

Corporate capital allocation, 273–274

Corporate competencies, 239–240

Corporate control, market for, 321

Corporate diversification strategies, 228–255. See also Corporate
diversification strategy implementation

    anticompetitive economies of scope and, 244–245

    capital allocation and, 241–242, 245–246, 251, 273–274

    core competencies and, 238–241, 251

    defined, 230

    direct duplication of, 251–252

    equity holders and, 247, 250

    financial economies of scope and, 241–244

    firm size and employee incentives, 246
    imitation of, 251–252

    levels and types of, 231–233

    market power and, 245–246, 251

    motivations for, 116

    multipoint competition and, 244–245, 251

    operational economies of scope and, 234–241

    rarity of, 249–251

    risk reduction and, 243–244, 249, 250

    shared activities and, 234–238, 251

    substitutes for, 252

    sustained competitive advantages and, 249–252

    tax advantages of, 244

    value of, 233–248

Corporate diversification strategy implementation, 256–281

    allocating corporate capital and, 273–274

    board of directors and, 259–260, 263

    compensation policies and, 277

    corporate staff in, 265–267

    division general managers and, 266–268
    institutional owners and, 263–264

    management control systems and, 270–277

    organizational structure and, 258–269

    performance evaluation and, 270–273

    senior executives, 259–260, 264–265

    shared activity managers and, 268–269

    transferring intermediate products and, 274–277

Corporate-level strategies, 7, 98, 204. See also Corporate
diversification strategies; Mergers and acquisitions; Strategic
alliances; Vertical integration strategies

Corporate staff, 265–267

Cost advantages

    as barrier to entry, 38–40

    experience differences and, 103–105

    imitability of, 113–117

    learning-curve economies and, 40, 103–105, 112, 114

    policy choices and, 108, 113, 115

    productive inputs, differential low-cost access to, 105–107, 108,
    115

    rarity of, 112–113
    size differences and, 99–103, 112

    sources of, 38–40, 98–107

    technological advantages and, 107, 112

Cost-based barriers to entry, 38–40, 109

Cost centers, 268–269

Cost heterogeneity, 194

Cost homogeneity, 194

Cost leadership strategies, 96–123. See also Cost advantages

    compensation policies and implementation of, 117, 120

    defined, 98

    direct duplication of, 113–116

    economic performance and, 111

    environmental threats and, 109, 111

    formulation of, 118–119

    imitation of, 113–115

    implementation of, 116–120

    management control systems and

    implementation of, 117, 120

    misalignment between business functions and, 119
    organizational structure and implementation of, 117–119

    product differentiation strategies and, 148–150

    rarity of, 112–113

    substitutes for, 109, 116–117

    sustained competitive advantages and, 111–117

    value of, 109–111

Costly-to-duplicate cost advantages, 115–116

Costly-to-duplicate product differentiation strategies, 139–142

Costly-to-imitate resources and capabilities, 73, 79, 81, 83, 86, 87

Costs

    average total cost (ATC), 66–67, 110, 134–135

    of capital, 16–17

    of debt, 17

    of equity, 17

    marginal cost (MC), 66–67, 110, 134–135

    overhead, 101

    of switching, 51–52

Craft beers, 126, 153n2

Creativity and product differentiation, 132, 145
Cross-divisional/cross-functional development teams, 144

Cross-equity investments, 302

Cross-subsidization, 245, 246

Crown jewel sales, 331

Cultural differences, 333, 334

Cultural trends, 30

Cumulative abnormal return (CAR), 317

Cumulative volume of production, 103–104, 112

Current market value, 312

Current ratio, 14

Customers

    firms, relationship with, 127–128

    loyalty of, 38

    perceptions of, 126–127

Customer service, 53, 132, 142

Customer-switching costs, 51–52

Customization of products, 129–130, 140
D
Dead weight loss, 181

DeBeers, 193

Debt, defined, 16

Debt capacity, 244

Debt to assets ratio, 14

Debt to equity ratio, 14

Decision-making

    guidelines for, 144–145

    uncertainty in, 211, 217, 292

Declining industries, 54–57, 135–136

Deep-pockets model of diversification, 246

Defense industry, 43–44, 57

Deliberate strategies, 20

Dell Computer, 215, 216, 244

Demographic trends, 29–30

Depressions, economic, 30
Differential low-cost access to productive inputs, 105, 112, 115

Difficult-to-implement strategies, 88–89

Digital Research Inc. (DRI), 308–309

Digital technologies, 29, 84

Direct competition, 40–41

Direct duplication. See also Imitation

    of corporate diversification strategies, 251–252

    of cost leadership strategies, 113–117

    imitation and, 74

    of product differentiation strategies, 137–142

    of strategic alliances, 297

    of vertical integration strategies, 217–218

“Direct” retail business models, 12

Diseconomies of scale, 36, 101–103, 112–114

Disney Company. See Walt Disney Company

Distance to markets and suppliers, 103

Distinctive competencies, 80, 81

Distribution agreements, 284

Distribution channels, 132, 141
Diversification economies, 315

Diversification strategies. See Corporate diversification strategies

Divestment, 56–57

Divisional performance, 270–271

Division general managers, 266–268

Divisions, 258–259

Dominant-business firms, 231

Dominant logic, 240

“Don’t Do Evil,” 63

Drug industry. See Pharmaceutical industry

Dry-cleaning industry, 327

DuPont, 51, 290

DVD rental business, Netflix, 154–155
E
Earnings per share (EPS) ratio, 14

Easy-to-duplicate cost advantages, 113–114

Easy-to-duplicate product differentiation strategies, 137–138

eBay, 69

Economic climate, 30

Economic performance, 11, 16–18, 111, 271–272

Economic profits, 316–317, 321. See also Zero economic profits

Economics

    of land, 66–67

    of product differentiation strategies, 134–135

    Ricardian, 66–67

    transactions cost, 226n4

Economic value, defined, 8, 11

Economic value added (EVA), 271–272

Economies of scale

    as barrier to entry, 36–37
    defined, 36, 99, 285

    duplication of, 113

    learning-curve cost advantages and, 103–104

    size differences and, 99–101, 112

Economies of scope, 233–248

    anticompetitive, 244–246, 251

    defined, 233

    divisional performance and, 272–273

    equity holders and, 247

    evaluation of, 60n14

    financial, 241–244, 246, 251

    firm size and employee incentives, 246

    mergers and acquisitions, 312–317

    operational, 234–241, 251

    types of, 233, 234, 313–316

    value of, 234–235

Education, primary and secondary, 40

Efficient size, physical limits to, 101

Electric power generation industry, 40
Elementary education industry, 40

Eli Lilly, 202, 204

Emergent strategies, 19–20

Emerging industries, 50–52, 135

Employees

     empowerment of, 89

     incentives to diversify, 246

     low-cost access to, 108

     motivation of, 102–103

     specialization and volume of production, 100–101

Enterprise software, 129, 140

Entrepreneurial firms, emergent strategies and, 20

Entry, facilitation through strategic alliances, 290–292. See also
Barriers to entry

Environment, general, 28–31. See also External environment

Environmental opportunities, 46–57

     in declining industries, 54–57, 135–136

     in emerging industries, 50–52, 135

     in fragmented industries, 49–50, 135, 327
    in mature industries, 52–54, 135

    product differentiation and, 135–137

Environmental threats, 34–46. See also Barriers to entry

    average industry performance estimated by, 44–45

    buyers’ influence, 43–44, 133

    complementors, 45–46

    cost leadership strategies and, 109–110

    defined, 34

    existing competitors, 40–41

    new competitors, 34, 36–40, 133

    product differentiation and, 133

    S-C-P model and, 34, 47, 60n9

    to strategic alliances, 292–295

    substitute products, 41–42, 133

    supplier leverage, 42–43, 133

EPS (earnings per share) ratio, 14

Equipment and plant, 65, 100

Equity

    alliances, 284, 300
    defined, 16

    holders, 247, 248, 250, 261

    investments, 301–302

Escalation of commitment, 117, 203

ESPN, 228–230

    corporate diversification by, 228–230

    organizational structure, 79

    resources and capabilities, 72, 74

Ethics and Strategy (feature)

    CEO salaries, 278

    cheating on strategic alliances, 296

    collusion ethics, 181

    competitive advantages, 32

    externalities and consequences of profit maximization, 70

    globalization and multinational firms, 248

    labor, low-cost access to, 108

    outsourcing, 216

    product claims in health care, 136

    stockholders vs. stakeholders, 18
    treating employees as flexible assets, 174

EVA (economic value added), 271–272

Event study analysis, 317

Executive committees, 220–221

Existing competitors, threats from, 40–41

Exit, facilitation through strategic alliances, 290–292

Experience differences, 103–105

Experimentation policies, 147

Explicit collusion, 180, 189, 289

External analysis, defined, 7

External environment, 26–61. See also Environmental
opportunities; Environmental threats

    general environment, elements of, 28–31

    industry structure and opportunities, 46–57

    structure-conduct-performance (S-C-P) model and, 34–35, 47,
    60n9

    threats to, 34–46

Externalities, 69

Extreme sports, 74, 79

Eye glasses, 96–97
F
Fast casual dining restaurants, 54

Fast-food industry. See also specific restaurants

    competition in, 40

    consolidation of, 50

    customer service in, 53, 142

    maturity of, 52–53

    refinement of current products in, 54

    as thinly traded market, 326

Favorable access to raw materials, 39–40

FDA (Food and Drug Administration), 136

Federal Trade Commission (FTC), 313–315

FedEx, 19

Fiat, 98

Field Trip, 2

Finance committees, 263

Financial economies of scope, 241–244, 246, 251
Financial resources, 65

Firm performance

    competition and, 35

    environmental threats influencing, 44–45

    industry and firm characteristics, impact on, 47

    market share, relationship with, 106

    mission impacting, 5–6

    resource-based view (RBV) of, 64–67, 78

    socially complexity resources and, 78

    structure-conduct-performance (S-C-P) model of, 34–36, 47,
    60n9

    valuable resources and, 68

Firms. See also Bidding firms; Entrepreneurial firms; Target
firms

    closely held, 311

    competitive advantages, responsibility for, 85–88

    customer relationship as product differentiation, 127–128

    dominant-business, 231

    links within and between as product differentiation, 127–128,
    139, 140
     multinational, 248

     privately held, 17, 311, 325

     publicly traded, 325

     reputation of, 130, 141, 302–303

     resources and capabilities, 62–94 (See also Resources and
     capabilities)

     single-business, 231

     size differences, impact of, 99–103, 112–113, 246

     strengths and weaknesses, identification of, 68–69, 80–81

     visionary, 6

Firm-specific investments, 221, 249–250

First-mover advantages, 50–52

First-mover disadvantages, 52

Flexibility

     defined, 210

     strategic alliances and, 211

     supplier industry domination and, 42

     vertical integration and, 210–211, 214, 222

Food and Drug Administration (FDA), 136
Food industry. See also Fast-food industry

    grocery stores, 52, 83, 237

    restaurant industry, 20, 54

    suppliers, 44

    threat of substitutes in, 41–42

Ford Motor Company

    mission, 5

    strategic alliances, 284, 296, 297

Formal management controls, 78

Formal reporting structures, 78

Forward vertical integration, 43, 205

Fragmented industries, 49–50, 135, 327

France, cultural trends in, 30

Franchise business models, 12

Free cash flow, 319

Friendly acquisitions, 311

FTC (Federal Trade Commission), 313–314

Full present value vs. benchmark value, 167

Functional conflicts, 219
Functional managers, 117, 119, 219–221

Functional organizational structure, 117–118, 218. See also U-form
organizational structures

Funeral home industry, 50, 327, 328
G
Gambling at casino, 159

Gas station, 178–179

General Electric (GE)

    corporate diversification by, 238

    customer service, 142

    divestment approach used by, 56

    divisions of, 258

    harvest strategy used by, 56

    niche strategy used by, 55

    operating principles of, 240

General environment, 28–31

General Motors (GM), 160, 193

    divisions of, 258

    product differentiation by, 128, 139

    shared activities used by, 237, 238

    strategic alliances, 284, 286, 287, 296–297
Generic business strategies, 98. See also Cost leadership
strategies; Product differentiation strategies

Generic value chains. See Value chains

Geographic location, 65

Geographic market diversification strategies, 230

Germany, cultural trends in, 30

Glass manufacturing firms, 182

Globalization

    multinational firms and, 248

    opposition to, 18

GM. See General Motors

“Going it alone” strategies, 297–299

Golden parachutes, 331

“Gold standard” of drug approval, 136

Google, 26, 62–64, 256–257

    resources and capabilities, 62–63

Government policy as barrier to entry, 40

Greenmail, 329

Grocery store industry, 52, 83, 237
Gross profit margin ratio, 14
H
Hair salon industry, 327

Hardware, technological, 107, 113, 115

Harvest strategies, 56

HBO, 288

Health care industry. See also Medical industry; Pharmaceutical
industry

    costs, 70

    marketing strategies for product differentiation, 144

    product claims and ethical dilemmas, 136

Hedonic prices, 129

Height of barriers to entry, 36, 60n13

Herbal treatments, 136

Hewlett-Packard (HP), 193

    mergers, 333

    mission, 5

    multipoint competition used by, 244–245
    shared activities used by, 237

High-quality objectives, 6

Hispanics, demographic trends among, 30

Historical conditions, 74–75

Holdups, 292, 294–295

Home appliance industry, 53

Home detergent industry, 53

Home financial planning, 42

Honda, 54

Horizontal mergers, 314

Hostile takeovers, 311

Hotel/motel industry, 50, 141

HP. See Hewlett-Packard

Hub-and-spoke systems, 41

Hubris hypothesis, 320

Human capital investments, 249, 250

Human resources, 65, 78
I
IBM, 308–309

    antitrust suits against, 193

    mission, 6

    product differentiation by, 139, 142

    shared activities used by, 237

IKEA, 191

Illegal immigrants, 108

Imitation. See also Direct duplication; Substitutes

    causal ambiguity and, 75–76, 94n19

    of corporate diversification strategies, 251–252

    of cost leadership strategies, 113–117

    direct duplication and substitution, 74

    patents and, 75, 77, 139

    of product differentiation strategies, 139

    of resources and capabilities, 73–77

    as response to competitive advantages, 84
    social complexity and, 75–78, 89

    sources of costly imitation, 74–77

    of strategic alliances, 297–300

    unique historical conditions and, 74–75

    of vertical integration strategies, 217

Immigrants, 108

Imperfectly imitable resources, 73

Implementation. See Strategy implementation

Incentives, 246

Increasing returns to scale, 288

India, outsourcing to, 203–204

Industry culture, 196

Industry recipe, 196

Industry social structure, 196

Industry structure. See also specific industries

    competitive dynamics in, 83–86

    conduct and performance impacted by, 33

    declining, 55–57, 136

    emerging, 51–52, 135
    environmental opportunities and, 46–57

    firm performance, impact on, 47

    fragmented, 49–50, 135, 327

    mature, 52–54, 135

Inelastic in supply, 66, 67

Informal management controls, 78

Information technologies, 107, 131, 139, 157, 213

Innovation, 52–54

Institutional investors, 264

Institutional owners, 263–264

Intangible assets, 60n21, 64, 293

Intended strategies, 19–20

Intermediate products, 274–277

Internal analysis, defined, 7

Internal capabilities. See Resources and capabilities

Internal capital markets, 241–244, 254n4, 273–274

Internal management committees, 220–221

International events, 31

Internet, search engines, 63–64
Invented competencies, 241

Inventory turnover ratio, 14

Investments

    equity, 301–302

    firm-specific, 221, 249–250

    human capital, 249, 250

    transaction-specific, 207–208, 212–213, 215, 221, 294–296

Invisible hand, 207
J
J&J. See Johnson &; Johnson

Japan

    automotive industry in, 54

    business and government, relationship between, 31

    cultural trends in, 30

JD.com, 282–283

Jensen & Ruback’s list of sources of strategic relatedness, 315–316

Jet industry, 41

Johnson & Johnson (J&J)

    compensation packages at, 277

    corporate staff, 267

    emergent strategy of, 20

Joint ventures, 285, 292, 303
K
Kampgrounds of America (KOA), 50

Kitchen appliance industry, 53

Knowledge as resource, 76

KOA (Kampgrounds of America), 50
L
Labor. See Employees

Land, economics of, 66–67

Laundry detergent, 84

Leadership, market, 55

Lean manufacturing, 286, 287

Learning-curve economies, 40, 103–104, 112, 114

Learning races, 286, 287

Legal and political conditions, 31

Legal sanctions, 300–301

Leverage ratios, 14, 15

Licensing agreements, 284

Linkages within and between firms, 130–132, 140

Liquidity ratios, 14, 15

Location-based product differentiation, 128, 141

Lockheed Corporation, 144

Logic, dominant, 240
“Low-cost centers,” 108

Low-cost leadership, 149

Low-quality objectives, 7

Loyalty of customers, 38

Lubatkin’s list of sources of strategic relatedness, 314
M
Major League Baseball, broadcast of, 229

Malaysia, labor costs in, 108

Mall development, 132, 137

Management committee oversight process, 220–221

Management control systems

    corporate diversification implementation and, 270–277

    cost leadership implementation and, 117, 120

    defined, 78

    formal vs. informal, 78

    product differentiation implementation and, 143–147

    strategy implementation and, 8

    vertical integration implementation and, 221–223

Managerial diseconomies, 101–102

Managerial hubris, 320–321

Managerial know-how, 38, 39, 60n21

Managerial perquisites, 261
Managerial risk aversion, 261

Managers

    agency relationships and, 261

    bidding firms, 324–328

    division general, 266–268

    functional, 117, 119, 218–221

    sales vs. manufacturing, 219

    shared activity, 269

    target firms, 328–329

Manufacturing

    industries, 104, 107

    managers, 219

    strategies, 172

Marginal cost (MC), 66–67, 110, 134

Marginal revenue (MR), 66, 110, 134

Market-determined price, 110

Market extension mergers, 314

Market for corporate control, 321

Marketing to consumers, 130, 140
Market leadership, 55

Market niche, 55–56, 134, 135

Market power, 246, 251

Markets, distance to, 103

Market share, 106, 149

Market uncertainty, 169

Marriott Corporation, 20

MasterCard, antitrust suits against, 193

Matrix structures, 118, 144

Mature industries, 52–54, 135

Mazda, strategic alliances, 284, 296

MC. See Marginal cost

McDonald’s Corporation

    business strategies, 149

    consolidation strategy of, 50

    customer service, 142

    growth rate of, 53, 61n50

    refinement of current products, 53

McKinsey value chain, 71
Medical industry

    diagnostics business, 291–292

    false claims and ethical dilemmas, 136

    health care costs, 70

    imaging as emerging industry, 50

    information technology in, 107

    product strategies, 20, 239

Mercedes-Benz, 139

Merck, 202, 204, 284

Mergers and acquisitions, 308–337

    bidding firm managers, rules for, 324–328

    defined, 311–312

    of economies of scope, 313–317

    evaluating performance effects of, 317–318

    implementation of, 332–334

    no economies of scope and, 312–313

    post-acquisition coordination and integration, 332

    reasons for engaging in, 318–321

    returns to bidding and target firms, 317, 318
    as substitute for strategic alliances, 299

    sustained competitive advantages and, 321–329

    target firm managers, rules for, 328–329

    types of, 313–316

    unexpected valuable economies of scope between bidding and
    target firms, 323

    value, rarity, and economies of scope, 321–322

    value of, 312–321

Mexico, labor costs in, 108

M-form organizational structures

    agency problems and, 261

    allocating corporate capital in, 273–274

    board of directors in, 259–260, 263

    corporate staff in, 265–267

    division general managers in, 266–268

    institutional owners in, 263–264

    performance evaluation in, 270–273

    post-merger integration and, 333

    senior executives in, 259, 264–265
    shared activity managers in, 269

    structure and function of, 258, 281n2

    transferring intermediate products in, 274–277

Microbrewery beers, 126, 153n2

Microsoft, 308–309

    antitrust suits against, 193

    ethics and strategy, 32

    mergers, 333

    product differentiation by, 128

    supplier leverage of, 42

Mini-mill technology, 38, 113, 118

Mining industry, 295, 303

Misalignment of business functions and cost leadership strategies,
117

Mission/mission statements, 5–6

Mitsubishi Motors, strategic alliances, 284, 296, 297

Mix of products, 131–132, 139

Mobile app, 2–4

Monopolies, 35, 40, 313
Monopolistic competition, 35, 134

Moral hazards, 292–294

Motel industry, 50

Motion picture industry, 232

Motivation of employees, 102–103

Motorola, 6, 63,

Mountain Dew, 130, 140

MP3 market, 79

MR. See Marginal revenue

MTV programming, 130

Muffler repair industry, 50

Multidivisional organizational structure. See M-form organizational
structure

Multinational firms, 248–249

Multipoint competition, 244–246, 251

Music download industry

    buyers in, 43

    competition in, 27–28, 34, 36

    growth of, 26–28
    substitutes in, 41

    suppliers in, 42–43

Music streaming services, 27

Mutual forbearance, 244–245
N
NASCAR, 131

NBC Sports Network, 74

Negative externalities, 71

Nestlé

    corporate diversification by, 238

    divisions of, 258–259

Netflix, 154–155

Network industries, 288

New competitors, threats from, 34, 36–40, 133

Niche strategies, 55–56

9/11 attacks (2001), 31

Nissan, 54, 139, 297

No economies of scope, mergers and acquisitions, 312–313

Nominating committees, 263

Nonequity alliances, 284, 300

Nordstrom, 147
Normal economic performance, 17

Nucor Steel, 118, 120
O
Oakland A’s, 115

Objectives, defined, 6–7

Occupy Movement, 248

Office of the president, 265

Office-paper industry, 135

Offshoring, 215, 218. See also Outsourcing

Oil industry

    first-mover advantages in, 51

    opportunism and transaction-specific investments in, 207–209

    productive inputs, differential low-cost access to, 105–107

    value chain activities in, 70, 71, 205

Oligopolies, 35, 313

Operational economies of scope

    core competencies and, 238–241, 251

    shared activities and, 234–238, 251

Operations committees, 220, 221
Opportunism, 207–209, 212, 219–223, 298

Opportunity analysis, 46–57

    in declining industries, 54–57

    in emerging industries, 50–52

    in fragmented industries, 49–50, 135, 327

    in mature industries, 52–54

Option to abandon, 158

Option to contract, 157

Option to expand, 158

Option to shut down and restart, 158

Option value metrics, 168

    from Black-Scholes option pricing table, 168–169

Organization

    of resources and capabilities, 77–79

    role of, 89–90

Organizational charts, 78

Organizational contradictions, 149–150

Organizational cultures, 89, 115, 333

Organizational efficiency, 197–198
Organizational resources, 65

Organizational self-discipline, 198

Organizational structures. See also M-form organizational
structures; U-form organizational structures

    corporate diversification implementation and, 258–269

    cost leadership implementation and, 117–119

    product differentiation implementation and, 143

    resource-based view on, 89

    strategy implementation and, 8

    vertical integration implementation and, 218–219

Other Bets Division, 257

Outplacement companies, 216

Outsourcing, 202–204

    of call centers, 212, 213

    ethical considerations, 216

    of research and development, 202–204

    vertical dis-integration and, 217

Overhead costs, 101

Oversight process, 220–221
P
Pac Man defense, 331

Pandora, 26, 27, 40

Paper industry, 135

Patents

    imitation and, 75, 77, 139

    infringement, 39

    protection of, 51

Path dependence, 75, 93–94n18

Pebble Beach, 116

Pecuniary economies, 315

People management. See Employees

PepsiCo

    corporate diversification by, 232

    distribution channels, 132

    product differentiation by, 130

Perceptions of customers, 126–127
Perfect competition, 32, 35

Performance. See also Firm performance

    defined, 33

    divisional, 270–273

    measures of, 11, 14–19, 270–272

Personal computer industry. See Computer industry

Personnel and compensation committees, 263

Pharmaceutical industry

    competitive advantages in, 10

    “gold standard” of drug approval, 136

    managerial know-how in, 39

    outsourcing of research and development in, 202–204

    patents in, 77

    product differentiation in, 131, 141

    reverse engineering in, 202–204

    strategic alliances in, 284, 292

    switching costs in, 52

    vertical integration in, 211

Philip Morris, 319
Philippines, outsourcing to, 202

Philips, 291

Physical limits to efficient size, 101

Physical resources, 65

Physical technology, 77

Plant and equipment, 65, 100

Poison pills, 330

Pokemon game, 2–4

Pokemon Go, 2–4

Policies. See also Compensation policies

    cost advantages and, 108–109, 113–115

    of experimentation, 147

    government regulation, 40

Political and legal conditions, 31

Pollution, 69

Porsche, 139

Positioning options, 170, 171

Post-merger coordination and integration, 332

Predatory pricing, 245
Present value, cash flows, 159

Price competition, 41

Price earnings ratio, 14

Price takers, 110

Pricing, predatory, 245

Primary education industry, 40

Principal in agency relationships, 261

Printing industry, 327

Prisoner’s Dilemma, 295

Privately held firms, 16, 311, 325

Processes, defined, 54

Process innovations, 54

Process manufacturing, 100

Procter & Gamble

    cost advantages, 51

    demographic trends influencing, 30

    shared activities used by, 235

    tactics used by, 85

Product bundles, 237
Product complexity, 128, 140

Product customization, 129–130, 140

Product differentiation strategies, 124–153

    attributes as, 127–128

    as barrier to entry, 38

    bases of, 127–132

    compensation policies and implementation of, 143, 147–148

    cost leadership strategies and, 148–150

    creativity and, 130, 144

    customer perceptions and, 126–127

    defined, 38, 126

    direct duplication of, 137–142

    economics of, 134–135

    environmental opportunities and, 135–137

    environmental threats and, 131

    firm-customer relationship as, 129–130

    imitability of, 137–143

    implementation of, 143–148

    links within and between firms as, 130–132, 139, 140
    location-based, 128, 141

    management control systems and implementation of, 143–147

    organizational structure and implementation of, 143–144

    rarity of, 137

    service and support as, 132, 142

    substitutes for, 142–143

    sustained competitive advantages and, 137–143

    timing-based, 128, 141

    value of, 133–137

Product diversification strategies, 230

Product extension mergers, 314

Product homogeneity, 194

Product innovation, 54

Production capacity, 41

Production volume. See Volume of production

Productive inputs, differential low-cost access to, 105–107, 112, 115

Product-market diversification strategies, 230

Product mix, 131–132, 139

Product refinement, 50–52, 58
Profitability ratios, 14, 15

Profit-and-loss centers, 258–259

Profit centers, 269

Profit maximization, 69–70

Proprietary technology, 39

Prosperity from cheating, 295–296

Public health externalities, 69–70

Publicly traded firms, 325

Public school systems, 40
Q
Qualitatively valuing strategic flexibility, 162–164

Quantitatively valuing strategic flexibility, 164–165

Question of imitation. See Imitation

Question of organization. See Organization

Question of rarity. See Rarity

Question of value. See Value

Quick ratio, 14
R
“Race to the bottom,” 108

R&D. See Research and Development

Rarity

    of corporate diversification strategies, 249, 251

    of cost leadership strategies, 112–113

    of product differentiation strategies, 137

    of resources and capabilities, 71–73

    of strategic alliances, 296–297

    of vertical integration strategies, 215–217

Ratios, accounting, 11, 14

Raw materials, access to, 39–40, 65, 105

RBV. See Resource-based view

Real assets, 157

Real options, 157, 226n7, 292

    recognizing, 165

    using financial option parameters, 166–168
Recessions, economic, 31

Refinement of current products, 52

Regulated firms, 255n35

Related-constrained corporate diversification, 232–233

Related corporate diversification, 231–233

Related-linked corporate diversification, 232–233

Reporting structures, 78, 118

Reputation of firms, 130, 141, 302–303

Research and Development (R&D)

    institutional owners and, 264

    outsourcing of, 202–204

Research Made Relevant (feature)

    board of directors, effectiveness of, 262–263

    empirical tests of theories of vertical integration, 212

    firm performance, impact of industry and firm characteristics on,
    47

    firm performance and market share, relationship between, 106

    product differentiation, bases of, 129

    sending signals to maintain collusion, 190–192
    strategic alliances, tacit collusion facilitated by, 289, 290

    strategic human resources management, 78

    sustained competitive advantages, 10

    value of economies of scope, 234–235

    value of real options thinking, 169–171

    wealth effects of management responses to takeover attempts,
    329–332

Research Triangle, 107

Residual claimants, 18

Resolving functional conflicts, 219

Resource-based view (RBV). See also VRIO Framework

    assumptions of, 65–66

    on competitive parity and advantages, 88

    components of, 63–64

    on difficult-to-implement strategies, 88–89

    human resource practices and, 78

    implications of, 86–90

    on organizational structure, 89–90

    origins of, 93n2
    of responsibility for competitive advantages, 86–88

    Ricardian economics and, 66–67

    on socially complex resources, 89

Resource heterogeneity, 65

Resource immobility, 66

Resources and capabilities, 62–94. See also Resource-based view
(RBV); VRIO framework

    categories of, 64–65

    competitive dynamics in industry, 83–86

    complementary, 79

    defined, 64

    evaluation of, 89

    imitation of, 73–77

    organization of, 77–78, 79

    rarity of, 71–73

    social complexity of, 75–77, 89

    socially complex, 75–77, 89, 222

    value of, 68–71

    vertical integration and, 209–210, 213, 217, 222, 223, 299
Responsibilities

    board of directors, 259–260, 263

    chief executive officers (CEOs), 117–119, 218–221, 262–263,
    265, 278

    corporate staff, 265–267

    division general managers, 266–268

    institutional owners, 263–264

    office of the president, 265

    senior executives, 259, 264–265

    shared activity managers, 268–269

    socially responsible firms, 71

Restaurant industry, 20, 54. See also Fast-food industry; specific
restaurants

Retail industry

    buyers in, 43

    product differentiation in, 132, 135, 140

    vertical integration in, 210

Retained earnings, 65

Return on assets (ROA) ratio, 14

Return on equity (ROE) ratio, 14
Revenue, marginal, 66, 110, 134

Reverse engineering, 77, 85, 202–204

Ricardian economics, 66–67

Risk aversion, 261

Risk reduction, 243–244, 249–250

Rivalry. See also Competition

    strategies for reducing, 84

    threat of, 34, 36–40, 109, 133

ROA (return on assets) ratio, 14

ROE (return on equity) ratio, 14

Rolex, 84, 126

Ruback & Jensen’s list of sources of strategic relatedness, 315

Ryanair, 115
S
Salaries. See Compensation policies

Sales managers, 219

Sanctions, 300–301

Satellite television, 46

Schools, primary and secondary, 40

SCI (Service Corporation International), 50, 327–328

Scouting options, 170, 171

S-C-P model. See Structure-conduct-performance (S-C-P) model

Secondary education industry, 40

Second movers, 88

Semiconductor industry, 104, 107, 212

Semi-strong efficiency, 337n5

Senior executives, 259, 264–265

September 11 attacks (2001), 31

Service Corporation International (SCI), 50, 327–328

Shared activities
    core competencies and, 240

    corporate diversification strategies and, 231, 235–238, 251

    as cost centers, 268–269

    limitations of, 238

    managers of, 268–269

    as profit centers, 269

    value chains and, 234–238

Shared activity managers, 268–269

Shared business level competence, 239

Shark repellents, 331

Shopping malls, 132, 139

Short-termism, 220

Shrinkage, 120

Silicon Valley, 107, 116

Single-business firms, 231

Size differences

    corporate diversification strategies and, 246

    cost advantages and, 99–103, 112

Skunk works, 144
Slavery, 108

Smartphones, 26

Socially complex resources, 75–77, 89, 222

Socially responsible firms, 71

Social welfare, 32

Soft drink industry, 130, 132. See also Coca-Cola Corporation;
PepsiCo

Soft signal, 190

Software, technological, 107, 112, 116, 121

Software industry. See also Computer industry

    product differentiation in, 129, 140

    suppliers in, 42

Sony Corporation

    mission, 5

    organizational structure, 79

    resources and capabilities, 68

    tactics used by, 85

South Africa, apartheid in, 71

Southwest Airlines
    concerns for, 94n33

    human resources and people-management capabilities, 65, 81–
    82

    operational choices, 81–82

    organizational resources, 65

    product differentiation by, 142

    VRIO framework analysis of, 81–82

Specialized machines, 99–100

Specific international events, 31

SportsCenter (ESPN), 229

Sports television industry. See also ESPN

    buyers in, 43

    competition in, 34, 40, 72, 73

    substitutes for, 41

    suppliers in, 42

Spotify, 28, 39

Staff, corporate, 265–267

Stakeholders, 18, 249–250

Standstill agreements, 329–330
Steel industry

    access to raw materials, 39–40

    barriers to entry, 37

    cost leadership strategies in, 118

    joint ventures in, 290

    management control systems in, 120

    substitutes in, 43

    technological advantages in, 107, 113

Stepping-stone options, 170, 171

Stewardship theory, 279

Stock grants, 223

Stockholders, 18

Stock options, 223

Strategic alliances, 282–307

    advantages of, 211

    adverse selection in, 289, 290

    cheating in, 292–295–296, 300–303

    contracts and legal sanctions in, 300–301

    defined, 284
equity alliances, 284, 302

equity investments and, 301–302

facilitating market entry or exit through, 290–292

favorable competitive environments created through, 288–289

firm reputations and, 302–303

holdups in, 292, 294–295

imitation of, 297–300

implementation of, 300–304

improving current operations through, 285–287, 288

joint ventures, 285, 290, 292, 303

moral hazards in, 292–294

motivations for, 116

nonequity alliances, 284, 300

product differentiation through, 131

rarity of, 296–297

as substitute for diversification, 252

substitutes for, 297–300

sustained competitive advantages and, 296–300

tacit collusion facilitated by, 289, 290
    threats to, 292–295

    trust in, 304, 307n34

    value of, 285–292

Strategically valuable assets, 51

Strategic choices, 7

Strategic decision making, risk in, 157

    under uncertainty, 159–160

Strategic flexibility, 156–174

    Black-Scholes Option Pricing Table and, 168–169

    calculating option value metrics, 166

    defined, 156

    establishing benchmark, 168

    financial option parameters and, 166–168

    full present value vs. benchmark value, 169

    organizing to implement, 173–174

    qualitatively valuing, 162–164

    quantitatively valuing, 164–165

    recognizing real options, 165

    risk based decision making and, 159–160
    sustained competitive advantages and, 172–173

    types of, 156–158

    value of, 158–169

Strategic human resources management, 78

Strategic management process, 2–25. See also Competitive
advantages; Strategies

    business model canvas for, 12–13

    defined, 5

    external and internal analysis in, 7

    external environment and, 26–61 (See also External
    environment)

    importance of studying, 20–21

    mission and mission statements, 5–6

    objectives of, 6–7

    organizing framework for, 10–11

    in smart phone applications industry, 2–4

    strategic choices and implementation in, 8

Strategic options, 156

Strategies. See also Business-level strategies; Corporate-level
strategies; Strategic management process
    changes in response to competitive advantages, 86–87

    consolidation, 49–50, 327

    defined, 4–5, 25n2

    difficult-to-implement, 88–89

    emergent vs. intended, 19–20

    formulation of, 264

    “going it alone,” 297–299

    harvest, 56

    implementation of, 8

    importance of studying, 22

    niche, 55–56

    technological leadership, 50

    “tit-for-tat,” 296

Strategy implementation. See also Corporate diversification

    strategy implementation

    cost leadership, 116–120

    mergers and acquisitions, 332–334

    product differentiation, 143–148

    senior executives and, 265
    strategic alliances, 300–304

    vertical integration, 218–223

Strategy in Depth (feature)

    agency relationships, 261

    Black-Scholes model for valuing financial options, 161–162

    business model canvas, 12–13

    colluding firms generating economic profits, 183–184

    cost leadership and economic performance, 110–111

    environmental threats and S-C-P model, 35

    mergers and acquisitions, evaluating performance effects of,
    317–318

    product differentiation, economics of, 134–135

    Ricardian economics and resource based view, 66–67

    vertical integration, measuring degree of, 206

Strategy in Emerging Enterprise (feature), “Blue ocean” markets, 145

Streaming, 26

Strengths of firms, identification of, 68, 79–80

Structure-conduct-performance (S-C-P) model, 34–35, 47, 60n9

Structures, defined, 32
“Stuck in the middle” firms, 148–150

Substitutes

    for corporate diversification strategies, 252

    for cost leadership strategies, 109, 117

    imitation and, 74

    for product differentiation strategies, 142–143

    for strategic alliances, 297–300

    threat of, 41–42, 133

    for vertical integration strategies, 218

Supermajority voting rules, 331

Suppliers

    cost leadership strategies and, 110

    distance to, 103

    threats from, 42–43, 133

Supply agreements, 284

Survival strategies, mergers and acquisitions as, 319

Sustainable distinctive competencies, 81

Sustained competitive advantages

    collusion and, 184–197
    corporate diversification strategies and, 249–252

    cost leadership strategies and, 111–117

    defined, 9, 73, 93n15

    mergers and acquisitions and, 321–329

    persistence of, 10

    product differentiation and, 137–143

    rare and costly-to-imitate flexibility, 172–173

    strategic alliances and, 296–300

    strategic flexibility and, 172–173

    VRIO framework on, 73–74, 76, 77, 79–80

Sustained competitive disadvantages, 9

Switching costs, 51–52
T
Tacit collusion, 84, 180, 189, 244–245, 289, 290

Tacit cooperation, 84–85

Tactics, changes in, 85–86

Takeovers, 311, 329–332. See also Mergers and acquisitions

Tangible assets, 64

Target firms

    returns to, 317, 318

    rules for managers, 328–329

    wealth effects of responses to takeover attempts, 329–332

Tax advantages of diversification, 244

Teamwork, 89

Technical economies, 314

Technical uncertainty, 169

Technological advantages, 107, 113

Technological change, 29

Technological hardware, 107, 113, 115
Technological leadership strategies, 51

Technological software, 107, 112, 116, 121

Technologies

    biotechnology, 29, 211, 284, 292

    digital, 29, 84

    information, 107, 131, 139, 213

    physical, 77

    proprietary, 39

Telecommunications industry

    corporate diversification by, 246

    shared activities used by, 237

Television industry. See also Sports television industry

    cable and satellite, 44–45

    complements in, 44–45

    cost and risk sharing in, 288

    demographic trends influencing, 29

    MTV programming, 130

    strategic alliances in, 288

Temporary competitive advantages
     defined, 9

     tactical changes, 85

     VRIO framework on, 74, 79

Temporary competitive disadvantages, 9

Tender offers, 311, 330

Terrorist attacks, 31

Thinly traded markets, 326–327

Threats. See Environmental threats

3M

     cheating, 189–196

     collude to reduce, 182–184

     core competencies of, 239

     mission, 5–6

     resources and capabilities, 68

Times interest earned ratio, 14

Time Warner

     mergers, 334

     multipoint competition with Disney, 244

     resources and capabilities, 69
Timex, 98, 126

Timing-based product differentiation, 128, 141

“Tit-for-tat” strategies, 296

Tobacco industry, 70, 319

Top-dog strategy, 192

Toyota Motor Corporation

     resources and capabilities, 65

     strategic alliances, 286, 287, 296–297

Tough signal, 190

Transactions cost economics, 226n4

Transaction-specific investments, 207–209, 212–213, 215, 221,
294–295

Transfer-pricing systems, 274–277

Transnational core competencies, 239

Transnational strategies, 239

Trust in strategic alliances, 304, 307n34
U
U-form organizational structures

    CEO, responsibilities in, 118–119

    cost leadership strategy implementation in, 118

    management committees in, 220–221

    post-merger integration and, 333

    product differentiation strategy implementation in, 143

    structure and function of, 117–118

    vertical integration strategy implementation in, 218–221

Unattractive industries, 83, 115

Uncertainty in decision-making, 211, 217, 292

Unfriendly acquisitions, 311

Unique historical conditions, 74–75

United Airlines, 142, 182

United States

    automotive industry in, 54

    business and government, relationship between, 31
    cultural trends in, 30

    demographic trends in, 30

    9/11 attacks (2001), 31

Unrelated corporate diversification, 231, 233

Used-car industry, 327
V
Value

    applying question of, 68–69

    of corporate diversification strategies, 233–249

    of cost leadership strategies, 109–110, 111

    economic, 8, 11

    of economies of scope, 234–235

    of mergers and acquisitions, 312–321

    of product differentiation strategies, 133–137

    of resources and capabilities, 68–71

    of strategic alliances, 285–292

    of vertical integration strategies, 205, 207–215

Value chains

    analysis of, 69–71, 205

    defined, 69, 204

    shared activities and, 234–238

Valued added as a percentage of sales, 206
Value propositions, 12

Vehicles. See Automotive industry

Vending machine industry, 131, 132

Vertical dis-integration, 217

Vertical integration strategies, 202–227

    backward, 44, 111, 204

    call centers and, 212–215

    capabilities and, 209–210, 213, 216, 222, 223, 296

    compensation policies and implementation of, 221–223

    defined, 204

    direct duplication of, 217–218

    empirical tests of theories of, 212

    flexibility and, 210–211, 214, 222, 223

    forward, 43, 205

    imitation of, 217–218

    implementation of, 218–223

    integrating theories of, 214–215

    management control systems and implementation of, 218–221

    measuring degree of, 206
    opportunism and, 207–209, 212, 221–223, 298

    organizational structure and implementation of, 218–221

    rarity of, 215–217

    substitutes for, 218

    sustained competitive advantages and, 215–217

    transaction-specific investments and, 207–209, 212–213, 215–
    216, 219

    value of, 205, 207–215

Vertical mergers, 314

Victoria’s Secret, 124–125

Video game industry, 2

Vietnam, labor costs in, 108

Virgin Group, 182

Visa, antitrust suits against, 193

Visionary firms, 6

Volume of production

    cumulative, 103–104, 112

    employee specialization and, 100–101

    overhead costs and, 101
   plant and equipment costs and, 100

   specialized machines and, 99–100

VRIO framework, 67–81. See also Resource-based view (RBV)

   application of, 81–82

   components of, 67–68

   imitation, 73–77

   organization, 77–78, 79

   rarity, 71–73

   strengths and weaknesses, identification using, 68–69, 79–80

   on sustained competitive advantages, 73–74, 76, 77, 79–80

   on temporary competitive advantages, 74, 79

   value, 68–71
W
WACC (weighted average cost of capital), 16, 271

Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., 282–283

    compensation policies, 120

    first-mover advantages of, 51

    management control systems in, 120

    mission, 5–6

    physical resources, 65

    resources and capabilities of, 210

    supply chain management strategy, 115

Walt Disney Company

    corporate diversification by, 231

    mergers, 314

    mission, 5–6

    multipoint competition with Time Warner, 244

    product differentiation by, 128

    Smartphone applications, 2–4
    strategic alliance with Pixar, 293

Watch industry, 84, 98, 126

Weaknesses of firms, identification of, 68, 79–80

Weighted average cost of capital (WACC), 16, 271

Wendy’s, 53

White knights, 331

Wine industry, 38, 145

Workers. See Employees

WPP advertising agency, 143
X
Xerox, 135
Z
Zero-based budgeting, 273

Zero economic profits

    collusion, 194

    cost leadership, 110

    mergers and acquisitions, 313, 316, 318

    product differentiation, 135
Contents
1. “Value. Rarity. Imitability. Organization.”
     Strategic Management and Competitive Advantage Concepts
2.   and Cases
3.   Brief Contents
4.   Contents
5.   Preface
     A. New to this Edition
     B. Solving Teaching and Learning Challenges
     C. Developing Employability Skills
     D. Instructor Teaching Resources


6. About The Authors
7. Part 1 The Tools of Strategic Analysis
      Chapter 1 What Is Strategy and the Strategic Management
   A. Process?
       1. Learning Objectives
       2. Strategy and the Strategic Management Process
           a. Defining Strategy
           b. The Strategic Management Process
               a. A Firm’s Mission
                      Some Missions May Not Affect Firm
                   a. Performance
                      Some Missions Can Improve Firm
                   b. Performance
              Some Missions Can Hurt Firm
            c. Performance

         b. Objectives
         c. External and Internal Analysis
         d. Strategic Choice
         e. Strategy Implementation


   3. What is Competitive Advantage?
      a. The Strategic Management Process, Revisited

   4. Measuring Competitive Advantage
      a. Accounting Measures of Competitive Advantage
      b. Economic Measures of Competitive Advantage
          The Relationship Between Economic and
       c. Accounting Performance Measures

   5. Emergent Versus Intended Strategies
   6. Why you Need to Know About Strategy
   7. Summary
   8. Challenge Questions
   9. Problem Set
  10. End Notes


B. Chapter 2 Evaluating a Firm’s External Environment
    1. Learning Objectives
   2. Understanding a Firm’s General Environment
   The Structure-Conduct-Performance Model of Firm
3. Performance
4. A Model of Environmental Threats
    a. Threat from New Competition
      a. Economies of Scale as a Barrier to Entry
      b. Product Differentiation as a Barrier to Entry
         Cost Advantages Independent of Scale as
      c. Barriers to Entry
          a. Proprietary Technology
         b. Managerial Know-How
         c. Favorable Access to Raw Materials
         d. Learning-Curve Cost Advantages

      d. Government Policy as a Barrier to Entry
      e. Threat from Existing Competitors
       f. Threat of Substitute Products
      g. Threat of Supplier Leverage
      h. Threat from Buyers’ Influence
         Environmental Threats and Average Industry
      i. Performance


5. Another Environmental Force: Complements
6. Industry Structure and Environmental Opportunities
      Opportunities in Fragmented Industries:
   a. Consolidation
      Opportunities in Emerging Industries: First-Mover
   b. Advantages
          First-Mover Advantages and Technological
       a. Leadership
          First-Mover Advantages and Preemption of
       b. Strategically Valuable Assets
          First-Mover Advantages and Creating
       c. Customer-Switching Costs
       d. First-Mover Disadvantages


       Opportunities in Mature Industries: Product
    c. Refinement, Service, and Process Innovation
       a. Refining Current Products
       b. Emphasis on Service
       c. Process Innovation


      Opportunities in Declining Industries: Leadership,
    d. Niche, Harvest, and Divestment
        a. Market Leadership
       b. Market Niche
       c. Harvest
       d. Divestment


 7. Summary
 8. Challenge Questions
 9. Problem Set
    a. The Pharmaceutical Industry
    b. The Pharmaceutical Distribution Industry

10. End Notes
C. Chapter 3 Evaluating a Firm’s Internal Capabilities
   1. Learning Objectives
   2. The Resource-Based View of the Firm
       a. What Are Resources and Capabilities?
      b. Critical Assumptions of the Resource-Based View


   3. The VRIO Framework
       a. The Question of Value
          a. Valuable Resources and Firm Performance
          b. Applying the Question of Value
             Using Value Chain Analysis to Identify
          c. Potentially Valuable Resources and Capabilities


      b. The Question of Rarity
      c. The Question of Imitability
            Forms of Imitation: Direct Duplication and
          a. Substitution
             Why Might It Be Costly to Imitate Another Firm’s
          b. Resources or Capabilities?
             a. Unique Historical Conditions
             b. Causal Ambiguity
             c. Social Complexity
             d. Patents

      d. The Question of Organization


   4. Applying the VRIO Framework
      Applying the VRIO Framework to Southwest
    a. Airlines
          Southwest’s Operational Choices and
       a. Competitive Advantage

      Southwest’s People-Management and Competitive
    b. Advantage


 5. Imitation and Competitive Dynamics in an Industry
       Not Responding to Another Firm’s Competitive
    a. Advantage
       Changing Tactics in Response to Another Firm’s
    b. Competitive Advantage
      Changing Strategies in Response to Another Firm’s
    c. Competitive Advantage

 6. Implications of the Resource-Based View
      Where Does the Responsibility for Competitive
    a. Advantage in a Firm Reside?
    b. Competitive Parity and Competitive Advantage
    c. Difficult-to-Implement Strategies
    d. Socially Complex Resources
    e. The Role of Organization


 7. Summary
 8. Challenge Questions
 9. Problem Set
10. End Notes
D. Part 1 Cases
   1. SodaStream International and the SodaStream System
   2. U.S. Carbonated Soft Drink Market
       a. Retail Distribution
        Manufacturing and Distribution of Carbonated Soft
      b. Drinks

   3. Waning Popularity of Carbonated Soft Drinks
   4. SodaStream Business Model
      a. Financial Results


   5. SodaStream’s Outlook
   6. End Notes
   7. Other References


  Case 1–2: True Religion Jeans: Flash in the Pants or
E. Enduring Brand?
     A Brief Recap of the Recent History of the U.S. Denim
   1. Market
   2. US Premium Denim Industry
   3. Competitive Landscape
   4. Manufacturing Process & Supply Chain
   5. VF Corporation and Seven For All Mankind
   6. Joe’s Jeans
   7. True Religion Brand Jeans
   8. True Religion’s Strategy
   9. Management Changes and The Future of True Religion
  10. 2013 Footnotes
F. Case 1–3: Walmart Stores, Inc.
   1. The Discount Retail Industry
      a. Competitors


   2. Walmart’s History
   3. Walmart in 2013
      a. Operations
      b. Sam’s Club
      c. Culture
      d. International Operations


   4. Looking Ahead
   5. End Notes

G. Case 1–4: Harlequin Enterprises: The Mira Decision*1
   1. The Publishing Industry2
   2. Harlequin Enterprises Limited
      a. Harlequin’s Target Market and Products
        Romance Series Product: Well Defined and
      b. Consistent
      c. Harlequin Business System
         a. The Global Author/Editor Team
         b. Distribution, Selling, and Promotion


   3. Rise of Single-Title Romance
   4. Harlequin’s Single-Title Task Force
      a. MIRA Launch Decision
      b. Author Management
         c. A Different Format
         d. Distribution
         e. Acquiring Single-Title Rights


      5. How Best to Proceed
      6. End Notes


8. Part 2 Business-Level Strategies
   A. Chapter 4 Cost Leadership
      1. Learning Objectives
      2. What is Business-Level Strategy?
      3. What is Cost Leadership?
         a. Sources of Cost Advantages
            a. Size Differences and Economies of Scale
                  Volume of Production and Specialized
               a. Machines
                  Volume of Production and the Cost of Plant
               b. and Equipment
                  Volume of Production and Employee
               c. Specialization
               d. Volume of Production and Overhead Costs

            b. Size Differences and Diseconomies of Scale
               a. Physical Limits to Efficient Size
               b. Managerial Diseconomies
               c. Worker De-Motivation
               d. Distance to Markets and Suppliers
        Experience Differences and Learning-Curve
      c. Economies
            The Learning Curve and Economies of
         a. Scale
         b. The Learning Curve and Cost Advantages
           The Learning Curve and Competitive
         c. Advantage


        Differential Low-Cost Access to Productive
      d. Inputs
      e. Technological Advantages Independent of Scale
      f. Policy Choices


4. The Value of Cost Leadership
   a. Cost Leadership and Environmental Threats


   Cost Leadership and Sustained Competitive
5. Advantage
   a. The Rarity of Sources of Cost Advantage
      a. Rare Sources of Cost Advantage
      b. Less Rare Sources of Cost Advantage


   b. The Imitability of Sources of Cost Advantage
      a. Easy-to-Duplicate Sources of Cost Advantage
         Bases of Cost Leadership That May Be Costly to
      b. Duplicate
      c. Costly-to-Duplicate Sources of Cost Advantage
      d. Substitutes for Sources of Cost Advantage
   6. Organizing to Implement Cost Leadership
        Organizational Structure in Implementing Cost
      a. Leadership
            Responsibilities of the CEO in a Functional
         a. Organization
            a. Strategy Formulation
               Coordinating Functions for Strategy
            b. Implementation


            Management Controls in Implementing Cost
         b. Leadership
            Compensation Policies and Implementing Cost
         c. Leadership Strategies


   7. Summary
   8. Challenge Questions
   9. Problem Set
  10. End Notes

B. Chapter 5 Product Differentiation
   1. Learning Objectives
   2. What is Product Differentiation?
      a. Bases of Product Differentiation
            Focusing on the Attributes of a Firm’s Products
         a. or Services
             a. Product Features
            b. Product Complexity
             c. Timing of Product Introduction
         d. Location.


        Focusing on the Relationship Between a Firm
      b. and Its Customers
         a. Product Customization
         b. Consumer Marketing
         c. Reputation


      c. Focusing on Links Within and Between Firms
         a. Linkages Between Functions
         b. Links with Other Firms
         c. Product Mix
         d. Distribution Channels
         e. Service and Support


   b. Product Differentiation and Creativity


3. The Value of Product Differentiation
   a. Product Differentiation and Environmental Threats
      Product Differentiation and Environmental
   b. Opportunities


  Product Differentiation and Sustained Competitive
4. Advantage
   a. Rare Bases for Product Differentiation
   b. The Imitability of Product Differentiation
      a. Direct Duplication of Product Differentiation
            Bases of Product Differentiation That Are
         a. Easy to Duplicate
            Bases of Product Differentiation That May Be
         b. Costly to Duplicate
            Bases of Product Differentiation That Are
         c. Usually Costly to Duplicate


      b. Substitutes for Product Differentiation

5. Organizing to Implement Product Differentiation
     Organizational Structure and Implementing
   a. Product Differentiation
     Management Controls and Implementing Product
   b. Differentiation
      Compensation Policies and Implementing Product
   c. Differentiation Strategies


  Can Firms Implement Product Differentiation and Cost
6. Leadership Simultaneously?
     No: These Strategies Cannot Be Implemented
   a. Simultaneously
     Yes: These Strategies Can Be Implemented
   b. Simultaneously
        Differentiation, Market Share, and Low-Cost
      a. Leadership
      b. Managing Organizational Contradictions


7. Summary
   8. Challenge Questions
   9. Problem Set
  10. End Notes


C. Chapter 6 Flexibility and Real Options
   1. Learning Objectives
   2. What is Strategic Flexibility?
      a. Types of Flexibility


   3. The Value of Strategic Flexibility
      a. Incorporating Risk in Strategic Decision Making
         Limitations of Risk Based Decision Making Under
      b. Uncertainty
      c. Valuing Flexibility


     Strategic Flexibility and Sustained Competitive
   4. Advantage
      a. Rare and Costly-to-Imitate Flexibility


   5. Organizing to Implement Strategic Flexibility
   6. Summary
   7. Challenge Questions
   8. Problem Set
   9. End Note


D. Chapter 7 Collusion
    1. Learning Objectives
   2. What is Collusion?
3. The Value of Collusion
     Colluding to Reduce the Threat of New
   a. Competitors
     Colluding to Reduce the Threat of Current
   b. Competitors
   c. Colluding to Reduce Other Competitive Threats


4. Collusion and Sustained Competitive Advantage
   a. Ways Firms Can Cheat on Collusive Agreements
   b. Explicit and Tacit Collusion
   c. Industry Attributes and the Threat of Cheating
      a. Price Leaders
      b. Industry Social Structure
      c. High Order Frequency and Small Order Size
      d. Large Inventories and Order Backlogs
      e. Entry Barriers


   d. Rarity and Costly to Imitate Collusion Strategies


5. Organizing to Implement Tacit Collusion
   a. Organizational Efficiency
   b. Organizational Self-Discipline


6. Summary
7. Challenge Questions
8. Problem Set
9. End Notes
  Case 2–1: McDonald’s: Comeback in the U.S. Burger ‐
E. Market? *
   1. McDonald’s Model
   2. Trends in Hamburgers
   3. McDonald’s Strategy
   4. Bibliography


F. Case 2–2: The Levi’s Personal Pair Proposal*
   1. Company Background and History
   2. Competition and the Denim Industry
      a. Cost Structure
      b. Mass Customization
      c. Personal Pair Proposal
         a. How It Would Work.
         b. Pricing.
         c. Planned Scope.
         d. Cost Impact.
         e. Investment Impact.
          f. Cost-Efficient Mass Customization.
         g. The Decision.


   3. Bibliography
   4. End Notes


  Case 2–3: Papa John’s International, Inc.: Growth
G. Challenges*
   1. Firm History and Background
      a. Business Structure
        Technology, Menu Enhancements, and Company
      b. Growth
        Cost Management and Operational Support
      c. Systems

   2. The Restaurant Industry and Pizza Segment
      a. Papa John’s Looking Forward


   3. End Notes


H. Case 2–4: Ryanair—The Low Fares Airline*
   1. Overview of Ryanair
   2. Mixed Fortunes
      a. Mixed Results
      b. Ancillary Revenues


   3. Ryanair’s Operations
       a. The Ryanair Fleet
      b. Staff Costs and Productivity
      c. Passenger Service Costs
      d. Airport Charges and Route Policy
      e. Marketing Strategy


   4. So, What About Aer Lingus?
   5. Risks and Challenges
      a. Sharp Economic Downturn
      b. Input Costs
         a. Fuel
            b. Airport Charges and Government Taxes


         c. Growth and Reducing Yields
         d. Industrial Relations
         e. Environmental Concerns
          f. Customer Services and Perceptions
         g. Other Risks and Challenges


      6. Ryanair’s Competitive Space
      7. Competitors and Comparators
         a. EasyJet
         b. Air Berlin
         c. Norwegian Airlines
         d. Wizz Air
         e. Aer Lingus
          f. Southwest Airlines


      8. Leading Ryanair into the Future
      9. End Notes

   I. Case 2–5: Torrey Nano, Inc.*
   J. Case 2–6: Collusion in Major League Baseball*
      1. Era 1 1860-1903i
      2. Era 2: 1903-1976
      3. Era 3: 1977 to the Present
      4. Collusion: 1985-88


9. Part 3 Corporate Strategies
A. Chapter 8 Vertical Integration
   1. Learning Objectives
   2. What Is Corporate Strategy?
   3. What Is Vertical Integration?
   4. The Value of Vertical Integration
      a. Vertical Integration and the Threat of Opportunism
      b. Vertical Integration and Firm Capabilities
      c. Vertical Integration and Flexibility
         Applying the Theories to the Management of Call
      d. Centers
            Transaction-Specific Investments and Managing
          a. Call Centers
          b. Capabilities and Managing Call Centers
          c. Flexibility and Managing Call Centers


      e. Integrating Different Theories of Vertical Integration


     Vertical Integration and Sustained Competitive
   5. Advantage
      a. The Rarity of Vertical Integration
          a. Rare Vertical Integration
                Rare Transaction-Specific Investment and
             a. Vertical Integration
             b. Rare Capabilities and Vertical Integration
             c. Rare Uncertainty and Vertical Integration


          b. Rare Vertical Dis-Integration
    b. The Imitability of Vertical Integration
       a. Direct Duplication of Vertical Integration
       b. Substitutes for Vertical Integration


 6. Organizing to Implement Vertical Integration
      Organizational Structure and Implementing Vertical
    a. Integration
          Resolving Functional Conflicts in a Vertically
       a. Integrated Firm


      Management Controls and Implementing Vertical
    b. Integration
       a. The Budgeting Process
       b. The Management Committee Oversight Process


      Compensation in Implementing Vertical Integration
    c. Strategies
          Opportunism-Based Vertical Integration and
       a. Compensation Policy
       b. Capabilities and Compensation
       c. Flexibility and Compensation
       d. Compensation Alternatives

 7. Summary
 8. Challenge Questions
 9. Problem Set
10. End Notes
B. Chapter 9 Corporate Diversification
   1. Learning Objectives
   2. What is Corporate Diversification?
      a. Types of Corporate Diversification
      b. Limited Corporate Diversification
      c. Related Corporate Diversification
      d. Unrelated Corporate Diversification


   3. The Value of Corporate Diversification
      a. What Are Valuable Economies of Scope?
         a. Diversification to Exploit Shared Activities
            a. The Limits of Activity Sharing


         b. Core Competencies as an Economy of Scope
               Shared Business and Transnational Core
            a. Competencies
            b. Corporate Competencies
             c. Core Competencies and Shared Activities
            d. Limits of Core Competencies


            Diversification to Exploit Financial Economies
         c. of Scope
            a. Diversification and Capital Allocation
            b. Limits on Internal Capital Markets
            c. Diversification and Risk Reduction
            d. Tax Advantages of Diversification
            Diversification to Exploit Anticompetitive
          d. Economies of Scope
             a. Multipoint Competition
             b. Diversification and Market Power


          e. Firm Size and Employee Incentives to Diversify


         Can Equity Holders Realize These Economies of
      b. Scope on Their Own?


      Corporate Diversification and Sustained Competitive
   4. Advantage
       a. The Rarity of Diversification
      b. The Imitability of Diversification
          a. Direct Duplication of Diversification
          b. Substitutes for Diversification


   5. Summary
   6. Challenge Questions
   7. Problem Set
   8. End Notes


  Chapter 10 Organizing to Implement Corporate
C. Diversification
   1. Learning Objectives
      Organizational Structure and Implementing Corporate
   2. Diversification
      a. The Board of Directors
   b. Institutional Owners
   c. The Senior Executive
      a. Strategy Formulation
      b. Strategy Implementation
         The Office of the President: Board Chair, CEO,
      c. and COO


   d. Corporate Staff
      a. Corporate and Divisional Staff
         Overinvolvement in Managing Division
      b. Operations


   e. Division General Manager
    f. Shared Activity Managers
      a. Shared Activities as Cost Centers
      b. Shared Activities as Profit Centers


  Management Controls and Implementing Corporate
3. Diversification
   a. Evaluating Divisional Performance
      a. Measuring Divisional Performance
            Accounting Measures of Divisional
          a. Performance
            Economic Measures of Divisional
          b. Performance


         Economies of Scope and the Ambiguity of
      b. Divisional Performance
      b. Allocating Corporate Capital
      c. Transferring Intermediate Products
         a. Setting Optimal Transfer Prices
         b. Difficulties in Setting Optimal Transfer Prices
         c. Setting Transfer Prices in Practice


     Compensation Policies and Implementing Corporate
   4. Diversification
   5. Summary
   6. Challenge Questions
   7. Problem Set
   8. End Notes


D. Chapter 11 Strategic Alliances
   1. Learning Objectives
   2. What is a Strategic Alliance?
   3. How do Strategic Alliances Create Value?
      a. Strategic Alliance Opportunities
         a. Improving Current Operations
             a. Realizing Economies of Scale
             b. Learning from Competitors
             c. Cost and Risk Sharing


         b. Creating a Favorable Competitive Environment
             a. Facilitating Technical Standards
             b. Facilitating Tacit Collusion


         c. Facilitating Entry and Exit
         a. Facilitating Entry
         b. Facilitating Exit
         c. Managing Uncertainty

  Alliance Threats: Incentives to Cheat on Strategic
4. Alliances
   a. Adverse Selection
   b. Moral Hazard
   c. Holdup


  Strategic Alliances and Sustained Competitive
5. Advantage
   a. The Rarity of Strategic Alliances
   b. The Imitability of Strategic Alliances
      a. Direct Duplication of Strategic Alliances
      b. Substitutes for Strategic Alliances
          a. “Going It Alone”
         b. Acquisitions


6. Organizing to Implement Strategic Alliances
   a. Explicit Contracts and Legal Sanctions
   b. Equity Investments
   c. Firm Reputations
   d. Joint Ventures
   e. Trust


7. Summary
8. Challenge Questions
   9. Problem Set
  10. End Notes


E. Chapter 12 Mergers and Acquisitions
    1. Learning Objectives
   2. What Are Mergers and Acquisitions?
   3. The Value of Mergers and Acquisitions
      a. Mergers and Acquisitions: No Economies of Scope
        Mergers and Acquisitions: When Economies of
      b. Scope Exist
         a. Types of Economies of Scope in Acquisitions
            a. The Federal Trade Commission Categories
            b. Other Types of Strategic Relatedness


         b. Economic Profits in Related Acquisitions


        Returns to Mergers and Acquisitions: Research
      c. Results
        Why Are There So Many Mergers and
      d. Acquisitions?
         a. To Ensure Survival
         b. Free Cash Flow
         c. Agency Problems
         d. Managerial Hubris
         e. The Potential for Economic Profits

     Mergers and Acquisitions and Sustained Competitive
   4. Advantage
   a. Valuable, Rare, and Private Economies of Scope
     Valuable, Rare, and Costly-to-Imitate Economies of
   b. Scope
     Unexpected Valuable Economies of Scope Between
   c. Bidding and Target Firms
   d. Implications for Bidding Firm Managers
        Search for Valuable and Rare Economies of
      a. Scope
      b. Keep Information Away from Other Bidders
      c. Keep Information Away from Targets
      d. Avoid Winning Bidding Wars
      e. Close the Deal Quickly
         Complete Acquisitions in “Thinly Traded”
      f. Markets
      g. Service Corporation International: An Example


   e. Implications for Target Firm Managers
      a. Seek Information from Bidders
        Invite Other Bidders to Join the Bidding
      b. Competition
      c. Delay, but Do Not Stop, the Acquisition


5. Organizing to Implement a Merger or Acquisition
     Post-Merger Integration and Implementing a
   a. Diversification Strategy
   b. Special Challenges in Post-Merger Integration


6. Summary
   7. Challenge Questions
   8. Problem Set
   9. End Notes


  Case 3–1: National Hockey League Enterprises Canada: A
F. Retail Proposal
   1. The National Hockey League
      a. National Hockey League Enterprises
      b. National Hockey League Enterprises Canada
      c. A New Approach


   2. The Industry
   3. Demographics
   4. Other Trends
   5. Alternatives
   6. End Note


G. Case 3–2: Starbucks: An Alex Poole Strategy Case
   1. Alex Meets with His Broker
   2. Starbucks’ Blueprint for Profitable Growth
   3. Evolution Fresh
   4. U.S. Tea Market
   5. La Boulange Café & Bakery
   6. Starbucks’ Loyalty Card
   7. Bitter Dregs: Starbucks’ Rivalry with McDonald’s
     Death of the Doughnut: Dunkin’ Donuts—A Beverage
   8. Company
   9. Conclusion
  10. Reference
  11. End Notes


  Case 3–3: Rayovac Corporation: International Growth and
H. Diversification Through Acquisitions1
   1. Company Background3
      a. The Global Battery Business


   2. Acquisitions
      a. Varta AG (Germany)
      b. ROV Ltd. and Microlite (Latin America)
      c. China
      d. Remington Products Company


   3. Lawn and Garden Care, Insecticides and Pet Supplies
      a. United Industries
      b. Tetra Holdings


   4. End Notes


  Case 3–4: Aegis Analytical Corporation’s Strategic
I. Alliances
   1. History of Aegis Analytical
   2. Finding Development Partners
   3. Growing the Organization
   4. The Discoverant Product
   5. Sales Efforts
          Demand for Manufacturing Process Software in the
       6. Pharmaceutical Industry
       7. Aegis’s Alliance Strategy
       8. Honeywell POMS Alliance
       9. Rockwell Automation Agreement
      10. Effectiveness of the Partnerships
      11. A Difficult Decision


    J. Case 3–5: Activision’s Crush on Mobile Gaming
       1. Introduction
       2. Global Video Industry
       3. Mobile Gaming Segment
       4. Activision-Blizzard
       5. Activision-Blizzard’s Strategy
       6. Overall Results
          King Entertainment Acquisition: Searching for New
       7. Growth Vehicles
       8. References


   Appendix Analyzing Cases and Preparing for Class
10. Discussions
   A. Why the Case Method?
   B. How to Analyze Cases
   C. Summary


11. Glossary
12. Company Index
   A. A
   B. B
   C. C
   D. D
   E. E
   F. F
   G. G
   H. H
    I. I
    J. J
   K. K
   L. L
   M. M
   N. N
   O. O
   P. P
   Q. Q
   R. R
   S. S
   T. T
   U. U
   V. V
   W. W
   X. X
   Y. Y
   Z. Z


13. Name Index
   A. A
    B. B
   C. C
   D. D
    E. E
    F. F
   G. G
   H. H
    I. I
    J. J
    K. K
    L. L
   M. M
   N. N
   O. O
    P. P
   Q. Q
   R. R
    S. S
    T. T
   U. U
    V. V
   W. W
    X. Y
    Y. Z


14. Subject Index
    A. A
    B. B
C. C
D. D
E. E
F. F
G. G
H. H
 I. I
J. J
K. K
L. L
M. M
N. N
O. O
P. P
Q. Q
R. R
S. S
T. T
U. U
V. V
W. W
X. X
Y. Z
List of Illustrations
  1. Figure 1.1 The Strategic Management Process
  2. Figure 1.2 The Sources of a Firm’s Competitive
    Advantage
  3. Figure 1.3 Types of Competitive Advantage
  4. How Sustainable Are Competitive Advantages?
  5. Figure 1.4 Organizing Framework
  6. The Business Model Canvas
  7. Stockholders Versus Stakeholders
  8. Figure 1.5 Competitive Advantage and Firm
    Performance
  9. Figure 2.1 The General Environment Facing Firms
 10. Is a Firm Gaining a Competitive Advantage Good for
    Society?
 11. Figure 2.2 The Structure-Conduct-Performance Model
 12. Figure 2.3 Environmental Threats and the Profit Potential
    of Industries
 13. Environmental Threats and the S-C-P Model
 14. Figure 2.4 Economies of Scale and the Cost of
    Production
 15. The Impact of Industry and Firm Characteristics on Firm
    Performance
 16. Network and Empty Core Industries
 17. Ricardian Economics and the Resource-Based View
 18. Figure 3.1 The Economics of Land with Different Levels
    of Fertility
19. Externalities and the Broader Consequences of Profit
   Maximization
20. Figure 3.2 A Simplified Value Chain of Activities of Oil-
   Based Refined Products such as Gasoline and Motor Oil
21. Figure 3.3 The Generic Value Chain Developed by
   McKinsey and Company
22. Strategic Human Resource Management Research
23. Chart 1 Average Price/Pair Company-Owned Stores
24. Exhibit 1 Harlequin/ Silhouette Series Positioning Scales
25. Exhibit 2 Typical Harlequin Series Romance Products
26. Figure 4.1 Economies of Scale
27. Determining the Optimal Level of Production in an
   Industry
28. Figure 4.2 The Learning Curve and the Cost of
   Production
29. How Valuable Is Market Share—Really?
30. The Race to the Bottom
31. Figure 4.3 Cost Leadership and Economic Performance
32. The Economics of Cost Leadership
33. Figure 4.4 An Example of the U-form Organizational
   Structure
34. Discovering the Bases of Product Differentiation
35. The Economics of Product Differentiation
36. Figure 5.1 Product Differentiation and Firm
    Performance: The Analysis of Monopolistic Competition
37. Product Claims and the Ethical Dilemmas in Health Care
38. Going in Search of Blue Oceans
39. The Black-Scholes Model for Valuing Financial Options
40. The Value of Real Options Thinking
41. Figure 6.1    Categorizing Your Register of Opportunities
42. Figure 6.2 The Option to Defer Deciding Whether to
   Build a Commercial Plant
43. Treating Employees as Flexible Assets
44. The Ethics of Collusion
45. Import and Exports of Apparel (in billions of dollars)
46. U.S. Apparel Industry Employment (production workers,
   in millions)
47. Exhibit 3    Traditional Original Levi’s Store Supply Chain
48. Exhibit 4    Personal Pair Value Chain
49. Figure 1
50. Figure 2
51. Figure 8.1 A Simplified Value Chain of Activities in the Oil
   and Gas Industry
52. Measuring Vertical Integration
53. Figure 8.2 The Exchange Between an Oil Refinery and an
   Oil Pipeline Company
54. Empirical Tests of Theories of Vertical Integration
55. The Ethics of Outsourcing
56. Figure 9.1 Levels and Types of Diversification
57. How Valuable Are Economies of Scope?
58. Figure 9.2 A Hypothetical Firm Sharing Activities Among
   Three Businesses
59. Figure 9.3 Multipoint Competition Between Hypothetical
   Firms A and B
60. Globalization and the Threat of the Multinational Firm
61. Risk-Reducing Diversification and a Firm’s Other
    Stakeholders
62. Figure 10.1 An Example of M-Form Organizational
   Structure as Depicted in a Firm’s Annual Report
63. Figure 10.2 An M-Form Structure Redrawn to Emphasize
   Roles and Responsibilities
64. Agency Conflicts Between Managers and Equity Holders
65. The Effectiveness of Boards of Directors
66. Do CEOs Get Paid Too Much?
67. Figure 11.1 Types of Strategic Alliances
68. Winning Learning Races
69. Do Strategic Alliances Facilitate Tacit Collusion?
70. When It Comes to Alliances, Do “Cheaters Never
   Prosper”?
71. Is Greed Good?
72. Evaluating the Performance Effects of Acquisitions
73. The Wealth Effects of Management Responses to
   Takeover Attempts
74. Exhibit 1 National Hockey League
75. Exhibit 2 National Hockey League Enterprises Canada
   Organizational Chart
76. Exhibit 9 Rayovac Corporation Stock Chart
77. Exhibit 3 The Discoverant Connectivity Link Between
   Disparate Data Sources and Reports
List of Tables
  1. Table 1.1 Common Ratios to Measure a Firm’s
    Accounting Performance
  2. Table 1.2 Apple Inc.’s Financial Statements for 2016 and
    2015 (numbers in millions of dollars)
  3. Table 1.3 Some Accounting Ratios for Apple Inc. in 2016
    and 2015
  4. Table 2.1 Possible Barriers to Entry into an Industry
  5. Table 2.2 Sources of Cost Advantage, Independent of
    Scale, That Can Act as Barriers to Entry
  6. Table 2.3 Attributes of an Industry That Increase the
    Threat of Direct Competition
  7. Table 2.4 Indicators of the Threat of Supplier Leverage in
    an Industry
  8. Table 2.5 Indicators of the Threat of Buyers’ Influence in
    an Industry
  9. Table 2.6 Estimating the Level of Average Performance in
     an Industry
 10. Table 2.7 Industry Structure and Environmental
    Opportunities
 11. Table 3.1 Questions Needed to Conduct a Resource-
    Based Analysis of a Firm’s Internal Strengths and
    Weaknesses
 12. Table 3.2 Sources of Costly Imitation
 13. Table 3.3 The VRIO Framework
14. Table 3.4 The Relationship Between the VRIO Framework
   and Organizational Strengths and Weaknesses
15. Table 3.5 Broader Implications of the Resource-Based
    View
16. Table 1 2011 U.S. Carbonated Soft Drink (CSD) Company
   Market Shares and Brands
17. Table 2 U.S. Carbonated Soft Drink Advertising
   Effectiveness ($ in millions)
18. Appendix 1 Selected 2012 Financials—Branded
   Carbonated Soft Drink Companies ($ in Millions Except
   EPS and Beta)
19. Table 1 July 2013 e-Shelf Space Survey Top Premium
   Denim Brands Selected Upscale Retailer Internet Sites
20. Exhibit 1 Walmart Stores, Inc., Income Statement, 2009–
   2013
21. Exhibit 2 Walmart Stores, Inc., Balance Sheet
22. Exhibit 3 Walmart Sales Growth by Segment, 2011–2013
   (in millions USD)
23. Exhibit 4 Proportion of Sales That Suppliers Receive from
   Walmart
24. Exhibit 5 Comparison of Prices at Walmart, Kmart, and
   Target, Nov. 2013
25. Exhibit 6 Costco Versus Sam’s Club
26. Table 4.1 Important Sources of Cost Advantages for
   Firms
27. Table 4.2 Why Higher Volumes of Production in a Firm
   Can Lead to Lower Costs
28. Table 4.3 Major Sources of Diseconomies of Scale
29. Table 4.4 Applying the Learning Curve to Estimate the
   Costs of Two Firms Selling the Same Product
30. Table 4.5 The Rarity of Sources of Cost Advantage
31. Table 4.6 Direct Duplication of Cost Leadership
32. Table 4.7 Organizing to Realize the Full Potential of Cost
   Leadership Strategies
33. Table 4.8 Common Misalignments Between Business
   Functions and a Cost Leadership Strategy
34. Table 5.1 Ways Firms Can Differentiate Their Products
35. Table 5.2 Bases of Product Differentiation and the Cost of
   Duplication
36. Table 5.3 Organizing to Implement Product Differentiation
   Strategies
37. Table 5.4 Guiding Innovative Principles at 3M*
38. Table 5.5 The Organizational Requirements for
   Implementing Cost Leadership and Product
   Differentiation Strategies
39. Table 6.1 Types of Flexibility and Examples of Actions
    That Can Create Each Type
40. Table 6.2 Areas under the Standard Normal Distribution
   Function
41. Table 6.3 Characterizing the Value of a Real Option
   Subjectively
42. Table 6.4 An Example of Two-Phase Investment Where
   Discount Rate=12 percent Risk-free Rate=5.5 percent
43. Table 6.5 Steps in Valuing a Real Option
44. Table 6.6 Correspondence of Value-Determining
   Parameters of Financial Options to the Attributes of Real
   Options, Applied to the Example in Table 6.4
45. Table 6.7 Real Options under Technical Uncertainty and
   Market Uncertainty
46. Table 7.1 Prisoner’s Dilemma Game and Associated
   Payoff Matrix
47. Table 7.2 Ways Firms Can Cheat on Collusive
   Agreements, Decision Variables, Behavioral
   Assumptions, and Equilibrium Performance Implications
   for Firms in a Duopoly without Product Differentiation
48. Table 7.3 Bertrand Cheating in a Duopoly with
   Homogeneous Products
49. Table 7.4 Performance Implications of Cournot Cheating
   in a Duopoly (With Firm A and Firm B) Where: (1) Overall
   Industry Demand is Given By: P = 100 − Q; (2) Where
   Total Quantity is the Sum of the Production of Firm A and
   B: Q = q 1 + q 2 ; (3) For Convenience, Where Each
   Firm’s Marginal Cost is Assumed to Equal Zero; and (4)
   Where Industry Marginal Revenue is Given By: MR =
    100 − 2Q .
50. Table 7.5 Strategic Implications of Soft and Tough
   Strategies When Collusive Agreements Are Threatened
   by Cheating on Prices and Quantities
51. Table 7.6 Industry Attributes That Facilitate
   the Development and Maintenance of Tacit Collusion
52. Table 1 McDonald’s Income Statement, 2013-16 (In
   Millions of USD except for per share items)
53. Table 2 McDonald’s Balance Sheet, 2013-16 (In Millions of
   USD except for per share items)
54. Table 3 Number of U.S. Locations for McDonald’s and
   Burger Competitors
55. Table 4 McDonald’s Versus Select Competitors on Time to
   Serve
56. Table 5 McDonalds and Select Competitors Price
   Comparisons
57. Table 6 Consumer Reports Burger Ratings, 2014
58. Exhibit 1 Levi Strauss Financial Performance
59. Exhibit 2 Profitability Analysis of Women’s Jeans
60. Exhibit 1a Ryanair Consolidated Income Statement
61. Exhibit 1b Ryanair Consolidated Balance Sheet
62. Exhibit 1c Ryanair Selected Operating Data
63. Exhibit 2 Budget Airlines Sundry Data: Europe and United
   States (2008–09)
64. Exhibit 3 Comparative Fare Levels (same booking dates
   and approximate departure times, includes one piece of
   luggage)
65. Exhibit 4 Punctuality Statistics (a) Comparative
   Punctuality on Selected Routes for 2009
66. Exhibit 4(b) Punctuality Performance of Scheduled
   Airlines
67. Exhibit 5 Comparative Airline Financial Statistics
68. Exhibit 6 Comparative Airline Operational Statistics
69. Table 1 Forecasted Cash Flows for Torrey Nano
   Investment Scenarios
70. Table 2 Projected Sales from Nano−4 (in 000’s)
71. Table 3 Details for Cash Flows for Each Decision
   Scenario (in 000’s)
72. Table 1 Minimum and Average Salaries in Major League
   Baseball, 1970-88
73. Table 8.1 Types of Compensation and Approaches to
   Making Vertical Integration Decisions
74. Table 9.1 Different Types of Economies of Scope
75. Table 9.2 Possible Shared Activities and Their Place in
   the Value Chain
76. Table 9.3 The Competitive Implications of Different
   Economies of Scope
77. Table 9.4 Costly Duplication of Economies of Scope
78. Table 10.1 The Roles and Responsibilities of Major
   Components of the M-Form Structure
79. Table 10.2 Responsibilities of Three Different Roles in the
   Office of the President
80. Table 10.3 Alternative Transfer-Pricing Schemes
81. Table 10.4 Weaknesses of Alternative Transfer-Pricing
   Schemes
82. Table 11.1 Ways Strategic Alliances Can Create Economic
   Value
83. Table 11.2 Ways to Cheat in Strategic Alliances
84. Table 11.3 When Alliances Will Be Preferred Over “Going
   It Alone”
85. Table 11.4 Reasons Why Strategic Alliances May Be More
   Attractive Than Acquisitions to Realize Exchange
   Opportunities
86. Table 11.5 Common Clauses in Contracts Used to Govern
   Strategic Alliances
 87. Table 12.1 Federal Trade Commission Categories of
    Mergers and Acquisitions
 88. Table 12.2 Lubatkin’s List of Potential Sources of
    Economies of Scope Between Bidding and Target Firms
 89. Table 12.3 Jensen and Ruback’s List of Reasons Why
    Bidding Firms Might Want to Engage in Merger and
    Acquisition Strategies
 90. Table 12.4 Possible Motivations to Engage in Mergers and
    Acquisitions Even Though They Usually Do Not Generate
    Profits for Bidding Firms
 91. Table 12.5 Rules for Bidding Firm Managers
 92. Table 12.6 Rules for Target Firm Managers
 93. Table 12.7 The Wealth Effects of Target Firm Management
    Responses to Acquisition Efforts
 94. Table 1 Rayovac Debt (as of July 2005)
 95. Table 2 Rayovac: Percentage of Sales from Major Product
    Lines
 96. Exhibit 2 Five-Year Financial Performance, 1998–2003a
 97. Exhibit 4 Market Projections for 2003
 98. Table 1 Global Video Game Market 2014-2015Top 25
    Companies in Game Software Development, Publishing,
    & Distribution ($ in millions)
 99. Table 2 Global Mobile Game Industry Revenues by
    Company 2014
100. Table 3 Activision-Blizzard Results by Segment
101. Table 4 Activision-Blizzard Selected Financials ($ in
     millions)
102. Table 5 King Entertainment Results ($ in millions)
103. Table A.1 Black·Scholes Option Pricing Table




Landmarks
  1. Brief Contents
  2. Frontmatter
  3. Start of Content
  4. backmatter
  5. Glossary
  6. List of Illustrations
  7. List of Tables
 1. i
 2. ii
 3. iii
 4. iv
 5. v
 6. vi
 7. vii
 8. viii
 9. ix
10. x
11. xi
12. xii
13. xiii
14. xiv
15. xv
16. xvi
17. xvii
18. xviii
19. xix
20. xx
21. xxi
22. xxii
23. 1
24. 2
25. 3
26. 4
27. 5
28. 6
29. 7
30. 8
31. 9
32. 10
33. 11
34. 12
35. 13
36. 14
37. 15
38. 16
39. 17
40. 18
41. 19
42. 20
43. 21
44. 22
45. 23
46. 24
47. 25
48. 26
49. 27
50. 28
51. 29
52. 30
53. 31
54. 32
55. 33
56. 34
57. 35
58. 36
59. 37
60. 38
61. 39
62. 40
63. 41
64. 42
65. 43
66. 44
67. 45
68. 46
69. 47
70. 48
71. 49
72. 50
73. 51
74. 52
75. 53
76. 54
77. 55
78. 56
79. 57
80. 58
81. 59
82. 60
83. 61
84. 62
 85. 63
 86. 64
 87. 65
 88. 66
 89. 67
 90. 68
 91. 69
 92. 70
 93. 71
 94. 72
 95. 73
 96. 74
 97. 75
 98. 76
 99. 77
100. 78
101. 79
102. 80
103. 81
104. 82
105. 83
106. 84
107. 85
108. 86
109. 87
110. 88
111. 89
112. 90
113. 91
114. 92
115. 93
116. 94
117. PC1-1
118. PC1-2
119. PC1-3
120. PC1-4
121. PC1-5
122. PC1-6
123. PC1-7
124. PC1-8
125. PC1-9
126. PC1-10
127. PC1-11
128. PC1-12
129. PC1-13
130. PC1-14
131. PC1-15
132. PC1-16
133. PC1-17
134. PC1-18
135. PC1-19
136. PC1-20
137. PC1-21
138. PC1-22
139. PC1-23
140. PC1-24
141. PC1-25
142. PC1-26
143. PC1-27
144. PC1-28
145. PC1-29
146. PC1-30
147. PC1-31
148. PC1-32
149. PC1-33
150. PC1-34
151. PC1-35
152. PC1-36
153. PC1-37
154. PC1-38
155. PC1-39
156. PC1-40
157. PC1-41
158. PC1-42
159. PC1-43
160. PC1-44
161. PC1-45
162. PC1-46
163. PC1-47
164. PC1-48
165. 95
166. 96
167. 97
168. 98
169. 99
170. 100
171. 101
172. 102
173. 103
174. 104
175. 105
176. 106
177. 107
178. 108
179. 109
180. 110
181. 111
182. 112
183. 113
184. 114
185. 115
186. 116
187. 117
188. 118
189. 119
190. 120
191. 121
192. 122
193. 123
194. 124
195. 125
196. 126
197. 127
198. 128
199. 129
200. 130
201. 131
202. 132
203. 133
204. 134
205. 135
206. 136
207. 137
208. 138
209. 139
210. 140
211. 141
212. 142
213. 143
214. 144
215. 145
216. 146
217. 147
218. 148
219. 149
220. 150
221. 151
222. 152
223. 153
224. 154
225. 155
226. 156
227. 157
228. 158
229. 159
230. 160
231. 161
232. 162
233. 163
234. 164
235. 165
236. 166
237. 167
238. 168
239. 169
240. 170
241. 171
242. 172
243. 173
244. 174
245. 175
246. 176
247. 177
248. 178
249. 179
250. 180
251. 181
252. 182
253. 183
254. 184
255. 185
256. 186
257. 187
258. 188
259. 189
260. 190
261. 191
262. 192
263. 193
264. 194
265. 195
266. 196
267. 197
268. 198
269. 199
270. 200
271. PC2-1
272. PC2-2
273. PC2-3
274. PC2-4
275. PC2-5
276. PC2-6
277. PC2-7
278. PC2-8
279. PC2-9
280. PC2-10
281. PC2-11
282. PC2-12
283. PC2-13
284. PC2-14
285. PC2-15
286. PC2-16
287. PC2-17
288. PC2-18
289. PC2-19
290. PC2-20
291. PC2-21
292. PC2-22
293. PC2-23
294. PC2-24
295. PC2-25
296. PC2-26
297. PC2-27
298. PC2-28
299. PC2-29
300. PC2-30
301. PC2-31
302. PC2-32
303. PC2-33
304. PC2-34
305. PC2-35
306. PC2-36
307. PC2-37
308. PC2-38
309. PC2-39
310. PC2-40
311. PC2-41
312. PC2-42
313. PC2-43
314. PC2-44
315. PC2-45
316. PC2-46
317. PC2-47
318. PC2-48
319. PC2-49
320. PC2-50
321. PC2-51
322. PC2-52
323. PC2-53
324. PC2-54
325. PC2-55
326. PC2-56
327. 201
328. 202
329. 203
330. 204
331. 205
332. 206
333. 207
334. 208
335. 209
336. 210
337. 211
338. 212
339. 213
340. 214
341. 215
342. 216
343. 217
344. 218
345. 219
346. 220
347. 221
348. 222
349. 223
350. 224
351. 225
352. 226
353. 227
354. 228
355. 229
356. 230
357. 231
358. 232
359. 233
360. 234
361. 235
362. 236
363. 237
364. 238
365. 239
366. 240
367. 241
368. 242
369. 243
370. 244
371. 245
372. 246
373. 247
374. 248
375. 249
376. 250
377. 251
378. 252
379. 253
380. 254
381. 255
382. 256
383. 257
384. 258
385. 259
386. 260
387. 261
388. 262
389. 263
390. 264
391. 265
392. 266
393. 267
394. 268
395. 269
396. 270
397. 271
398. 272
399. 273
400. 274
401. 275
402. 276
403. 277
404. 278
405. 279
406. 280
407. 281
408. 282
409. 283
410. 284
411. 285
412. 286
413. 287
414. 288
415. 289
416. 290
417. 291
418. 292
419. 293
420. 294
421. 295
422. 296
423. 297
424. 298
425. 299
426. 300
427. 301
428. 302
429. 303
430. 304
431. 305
432. 306
433. 307
434. 308
435. 309
436. 310
437. 311
438. 312
439. 313
440. 314
441. 315
442. 316
443. 317
444. 318
445. 319
446. 320
447. 321
448. 322
449. 323
450. 324
451. 325
452. 326
453. 327
454. 328
455. 329
456. 330
457. 331
458. 332
459. 333
460. 334
461. 335
462. 336
463. 337
464. 338
465. PC3-1
466. PC3-2
467. PC3-3
468. PC3-4
469. PC3-5
470. PC3-6
471. PC3-7
472. PC3-8
473. PC3-9
474. PC3-10
475. PC3-11
476. PC3-12
477. PC3-13
478. PC3-14
479. PC3-15
480. PC3-16
481. PC3-17
482. PC3-18
483. PC3-19
484. PC3-20
485. PC3-21
486. PC3-22
487. PC3-23
488. PC3-24
489. PC3-25
490. PC3-26
491. PC3-27
492. PC3-28
493. PC3-29
494. PC3-30
495. PC3-31
496. PC3-32
497. PC3-33
498. PC3-34
499. PC3-35
500. PC3-36
501. PC3-37
502. PC3-38
503. PC3-39
504. PC3-40
505. PC3-41
506. PC3-42
507. PC3-43
508. PC3-44
509. PC3-45
510. PC3-46
511. PC3-47
512. PC3-48
513. 339
514. 340
515. 341
516. 342
517. 343
518. 344
519. 345
520. 346
521. 347
522. 348
523. 349
524. 350
525. 351
526. 352
527. 353
528. 354
529. 355
530. 356
531. 357
532. 358
533. 359
534. 360
535. 361
536. 362
537. 363
538. 364
539. 365
540. 366
541. 367
542. 368
543. 369
544. 370
545. 371
546. 372
547. 373
548. 374
549. 375
550. 376
551. 377
552. 378
