Vol. 29, No. 4

2024

Strategic Management
International Journal of Strategic Management and
Decision Support Systems in Strategic Management
ISSN 1821-3448, UDC 005.21
Strategic Management is a quarterly journal addressing issues concerned with all aspects of strategic management. It is devoted to the improvement and further development of the theory and practice of strategic
management and it is designed to appeal to both practicing managers and academics. Specially, Journal publishes original refereed material in decision support systems in strategic management.

Thematic Fields































Mission and Philosophy of the Organization
Culture and Climate of the Organization
Effectiveness and Efficiency of the Organization
Structure and Form of the Organization
Strategic Analysis
Aims and Strategies
Process of Strategic Management
Characteristics of Strategic Management in the New Economy
Contemporary Ontological, Epistemological and Axiological Suppositions on the Organization and its
Environment
Analysis of the Organization and its Interaction with the Environment
Structure and Dynamics of the Organizational Environment
Uncertainty and Indistinctiveness of the Organizational Environment
Synchronic and Diachronic Analysis of the Organizational Environment
Analysis Techniques of the Organization
Business Processes, Learning and Development within the Context of Strategic Management
Evaluation and Measuring of the Potential and Realization of the Organization within the
Context of Strategic Management
Strategic Control in Contemporary Management
Information Technologies in Strategic Management
Business Intelligence and Strategic Management
Decision Support Systems and Artificial Intelligence in Strategic Management
Performance Management Process
Performance Management System
Improving Performance
Strategic Marketing Management
Strategic Global Marketing Management
Strategic Services Marketing
Leadership and Ethics in Strategic Management
Human Resource Management and Strategy
Organizational Behaviour, Strategy, and Performance

All scientific articles submitted for publication in Journal are double-blind reviewed by at least two academics
appointed by the Editor's Board: one from the Editorial Board and one independent scientist of the language of
origin - English. Reviewers stay anonymous. Authors will timely receive written notification of acceptance, remarks, comments and evaluation of their articles.

Strategic Management
International Journal of Strategic Management and
Decision Support Systems in Strategic Management
www.smjournal.rs
Publisher

University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica
9 - 11 Segedinski put, Subotica 24000, Serbia
Tel: +381 24 628 000
Fax: +381 24 546 486
http://www.ef.uns.ac.rs
e-mail: smjournal@ef.uns.ac.rs

For Publisher

Aleksandar Čučković, Full professor, Dean, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Serbia

Editor-in-Chief

Lazar Raković, Аssociate Professor, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Serbia

Co-Editor-in-Chief

Jean Vasile Andrei, Full professor, National Institute for Economic Research "Costin C. Kiriţescu", Romanian Academy, Bucharest, Romania

Assistant Editors

Amra Kapo, Associate professor, University of Sarajevo, School of Economics and Business, Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina

Lilla Hortoványi, Senior Research Fellow, Mathias Corvinus Collegium, Budapest, Hungary
Mirjana Pejić Bach, Full professor, University of Zagreb, Faculty of Economics and Business, Zagreb, Croatia
Oleksandr Dorokhov, Professor, Kharkiv National University of Economics, Faculty of Information Technologies, Kharkiv, Ukraine; Visiting professor,
University of Tartu, School of Economics and Business, Tartu, Estonia
Marton Sakal, Full professor, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Serbia
Slobodan Marić, Assistant professor, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Serbia
Vuk Vuković, Аssociate Professor, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Serbia

Editorial Board

Agneš Slavić, Full professor, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Aleksy Kwilinski, Professor, The London Academy of Science and Business, London, UK
Amulya Gurtu, Professor, Texas A&M University at Galveston, Galveston, USA
Anca Draghici, Full professor, Politehnica University of Timisoara, Faculty of Management in Production and Transportation , Timisoara, Romania
António Portugal Duarte, Associate Professor, University of Coimbra, Faculty of Economics, Portugal, Coimbra, Portugal
Carolina Feliciana Sá Cunha Machado, Associate professor, University of Minho, School of Economics and Management, Braga, Portugal
Chivu Luminita, General Director, National Institute for Economic, Research ‘Costin C. Kiritescu’ of the Romanian Academy, Bucharest, Romania
Cicea Claudiu Constantin, Professor, Bucharest University of Economic Studies, Bucharest, Romania
Daniela Nuševa, Associate professor, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Darjan Karabašević, Associate Professor, University Business Academy in Novi Sad, Faculty of Applied Management, Economics and Finance, Novi
Sad, Serbia/College of Global Business, Korea University, Sejong, South Korea
Darko Pantelic, Assistant professor, Jönköping University, Jönköping International Business School, Jönköping, Sweden
Dejan Petrović, Full professor, University of Belgrade, Faculty of Organizational Sciences, Belgrade, Serbia
Dragana Rejman Petrović, Аssociate Professor, University of Kragujevac, Faculty of Economics, Kragujevac, Serbia
Erik Šoltés, Full professor, University of Economics in Bratislava, Faculty of Economic Informatics, Bratislava, Slovakia
František Pollák, Associate professor, University of Economics in Bratislava, Faculty of Business Management, Bratislava, Slovakia
Homayoun Khamooshi, Associate professor, George Washington University, School of Business, Washington, USA
Igor Perko, Associate professor, University of Maribor, Faculty of Economics and Business, Maribor, Slovenia
Iva Vuksanović Herceg, Associate professor, University of Belgrade, Faculty of Economics, Belgrade, Serbia
Konstantin Kostin, Full professor, Saint-Petersburg State University of Economics, St. Petersburg, Russia
Kosta Sotiroski, Full professor, University ST Kliment Ohridski, Faculty of Economics, Prilep, North Macedonia
Lena Đorđević Milutinović, Associate Professor, University of Belgrade, Faculty of Organizational Sciences, Belgrade, Serbia
Maja Ivanović Đukić, Full professor, University of Niš, Faculty of Economics, Niš, Serbia
Marek Dziura, Assistant Professor, Krakow University of Economics, Krakow, Poland
Marianna Siničáková, Associate professor, Technical University of Košice, Faculty of Economics, Košice, Slovakia
Mladen Čudanov, Full professor, University of Belgrade, Faculty of Organizational Sciences, Belgrade, Serbia

Nada Milenković, Associate professor, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Nemanja Berber, Associate professor, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Nikola Ćurčić, Senior Research Associate,"Tamiš" Research and Devalopment Institute, Pančevo, Serbia
Nikša Alfirević, Full professor, University of Split, Faculty of Economics, Business and Tourism, Split, Croatia
Otilija Sedlak, Full professor, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Paweł Lula, Full professor, Cracow University of Economics, Kraków, Poland
Péter Kovács, University of Szeged, Full professor, Faculty of Economics and Business Administration, Szeged, Hungary
Predrag Matković, Full professor, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Roland Zsolt Szabó, Associate Professor, Széchenyi István University, Kautz Gyula Faculty of Business and Economics, Győr, Hungary
Saša Bošnjak, Full professor, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Srđan Redžepagić, Professor of Economics, Université Côte d’Azur, Graduate School in Economics and Management, Nice, France
Syed Abdul Rehman Khan, Full professor, Xuzhou University of Technology, Xuzhou, China
Timur Uman, Professor, Jönköping University, Jönköping International Business School, Jönköping, Sweden
Tomasz Rojek, Assistant Professor, Krakow University of Economics, Krakow, Poland
Tomislav Herceg, Associate Professor, University of Zagreb, Faculty of Economics and Business, Zagreb, Croatia
Veljko Jeremić, Full professor, University of Belgrade, Faculty of Organizational Sciences, Belgrade, Serbia
Zoran Simonović, Senior Research Associate, Institute of Agricultural Economics, Belgrade, Serbia
Every member of the Editorial Board has identified their respective affiliations with institutions or organizations, specifying the associated country or
geographic region. The University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, maintains a neutral stance concerning jurisdictional claims.

Proofreading

Željko Buljovčić

Prepress
Print

Aleksandar Vugdelija
Donat Graf d.o.o. Beograd

Circulation

100

The Journal is published quarterly.

Strategic Management
International Journal of Strategic Management and
Decision Support Systems in Strategic Management
www.smjournal.rs

ISSN 1821-3448
UDC 005.21
2024, Vol. 29, No. 4

Contents

Tihona Bozhinovska, Ljupcho Eftimov
Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

5-27

Meldina Kokorović Jukan, Emira Kozarević, Vesna Zukić
Financial inclusion and inflation in Southeast European countries

28-38

Adi Alić, Ahmed Kadrić
Effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand addiction serve as a socially responsible
mediator?

39-60

Marko Aleksić, Nemanja Berber, Maja Strugar Jelača, Radmila Bjekić
The impact of corporate social responsibility on the environmental performance of large organizations in Serbia

61-69

Oğuzhan Aytar, Rukiye Arslan
Future-shaping themes: digital age foresight in Turkish university strategic plans

70-81

Nenad Đokić, Nikola Milićević, Branimir Kalaš, Ines Đokić
Banking service quality perceived by students: implications to green services

82-88

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027
DOI: 10.5937/StraMan2300060B
Received: March 17, 2023
Revised: August 22, 2023
October 09, 2023
Accepted: October 24, 2023
Published online: December 26, 2023

Boards’ strategic involvement models:
past, present, and future
Tihona Bozhinovska
Ss. Cyril and Methodius University in Skopje, Faculty of Economics - Skopje, Skopje, Republic of North Macedonia
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3350-7468
Ljupcho Eftimov
Ss. Cyril and Methodius University in Skopje, Faculty of Economics - Skopje, Skopje, Republic of North Macedonia
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0870-4355
Abstract
Background: The research on boards’ strategic involvement has increased dramatically in the last few decades
due to the need for improving boards’ strategic effectiveness as a mechanism for improving organizational
performance. The corporate scandals highlighted even more that boards’ strategic decisions have sizable
consequences for organizational survival, and long-term implications for organizational development.
Purpose: The main research questions in this study are: 1. Which are the main elements of the concept of
boards’ strategic involvement?; 2. Which models constitute the core of the concept and how we can classify
them?; 3. How has the discourse on boards’ strategic role changed over time? Our purpose is to provide
comprehensive answers to these questions and draft the future research agenda in this area.
Study design/methodology/approach: Having in mind that boards’ strategic involvement is a multi-disciplinary
area, we first conducted an integrative literature review, to detect the competing groups of models, and
afterwards we conducted a semi-structured literature review in order to identify the most important topics in this
area and to draft the future research agenda.
Findings/conclusions: This paper contributes to research by identifying the models of boards’ strategic
involvement, classifying them in three competing groups of models that represent the foundation in this research
area, by identifying the most investigated topics in the past five years and finally, by drafting the future research
agenda. Our conclusion is that the research in this multidisciplinary area is navigating around these three groups
of models and that the most explored topics around which the future research is going to be conducted are
boards’ involvement in the area of strategic human resource management and decisions regarding
organizations’ sustainability.
Limitations/future research: The study’s main limitations are related to the fact that the identified models on
boards’ strategic involvement have been developed, mostly by authors from the USA and UK, where the onetier board system is used. In future research, the authors should focus on proposing new framework(s)/model(s)
and supporting its insights with empirical evidence.
Keywords
boards, strategy, boards’ strategic involvement models, sustainable organizational performance, strategic
human resource management

Introduction
Motivation of the paper

The reason for investigating the literature on
boards’ strategic involvement is in the fact that this
is a mature research field that has emerged in the
overlap of theories from several disciplines.
Although the need for increased boards’

participation into the strategic process and strategic
decision-making has been strongly argued from the
beginning of the 70s in the past century, most of
the empirical papers researching this concept have
been published after 1990. The reason for this is in
the fact that boards’ strategic role has been
theoretically defined by Zahra and Pearce II in
1989. By analysing the four prevailing
perspectives on boards’ roles, Zahra and Pearce II

6

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

(1989) elaborated the essence and the key
constituting elements of boards’ strategic role and
thereby created the foundation for further empirical
and theoretical research on boards’ strategic
involvement. Building on their previous work, the
same authors empirically researched boards’
strategic involvement in 1990 on a sample of US
companies and created the first model on boards’
strategic involvement.
In the following decades different authors
investigated boards’ processes related to strategy
and strategic decision-making grounding their
research on a variety of theoretical approaches.
Namely, the authors employed different theoretical
approaches from strategic management to gain
more insight on boards’ processes and particularly
those processes related to boards’ members
involvement in strategy. Although different models
were designed, and therefore the basis for future
research in this area was created during these more
than two decades, their main contribution and
findings have not been properly analysed and
systematized. However, since boards’ work and
processes, particularly those related to strategy, as
noted in several papers represent a “black box”
(Leblach & Schwarts, 2007; Klarner et al., 2020;
Guerra, 2022), the need for thoughtful and
methodological research on the literature on
boards’ strategic involvement is necessary for
gaining clarity and laying the foundations for
further empirical examination on the topic.
Deepening our understanding on strategic process
and the decisions that board members and top
management teams make, as well as their
behaviour in those processes is essential for
selecting proper theoretical and methodological
approaches for empirically researching boards’
strategic involvement and strategic management in
general.
The contribution of this paper is in the synthesis
of the literature on boards’ strategic involvement,
the identification of the key conceptual
frameworks/models, identifying the most popular
topics in this research area in the period 2019-2023
and setting directions for future research. This
could give some insights regarding boards’ work
and their participation in the strategic process that
hopefully could led to a construction of a new
theory on boards’ strategic involvement, as some
academics have already proposed (Rindova, 1999;
Pye & Camm, 2003; Ghaya, 2011).
The paper intends to answer the following
questions:

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

1. Which are the main elements of the concept
of boards’ strategic involvement?
2. Which models constitute the core of the
concept and how we can classify them?
3. How has the discourse on boards’ strategic
role and boards’ strategic involvement
changed over time?
Finally, the main motivation for writing this
paper is in the perceived lack of a study on boards’
strategic involvement that explains the origins and
the foundations of the concept, and how the topic
has reconceptualised in the past decade. We must
reflect and write on this since strategy is the most
important board function (Wommack, 1979) and
because the strategic directions defined at the top
of the organizations determine its survival,
competitiveness, and future growth. Furthermore,
the behaviour of boards and top management teams
members and the practices used in the strategic
management process in the largest organizations,
which can have enormous impact on the overall
economy, remain unavailable for research for most
academics.
Theoretical background

The theoretical approaches that constitute the basis
for researching boards’ strategic involvement
includes the theories related to organizational
sciences and strategic management such as agency
theory, resource dependence theory, strategic
choice theory, stewardship theory and stakeholder
theory. Additionally, for proper investigation of
this concept, the analysis of several approaches
used in psychology is more that need and justified.
Namely, the finding in cognitive psychology has
been used for increasing the understanding of
managerial cognition and the link between
managerial or directors’ cognition with the
strategic process. Furthermore, the investigation of
boards’ strategic involvement is not possible
without understanding the term “involvement”
which is elaborated from organizational
perspective in the works of Maslach and Leither
(1997), who analyse involvement as a component
of employee engagement (in the research on
burnout, which is a very popular topic in the area
of human research management). Consequently,
we can conclude that the theoretical background of
boards’ strategic involvement incorporates the
theories that have been used for defining boards’
strategic role (agency theory
and resource
dependence theory), theories/approaches that
elaborate the process of strategy making and the

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

role of executives in this process (stewardship
theory, strategic choice theory and stakeholder
theory), the cognitive approach that explains how
directors and managers exercise strategic thinking
and strategic behaviours and the theories on
employee engagement that elaborate the meaning
of the term involvement.
One of the main premises of agency theory is
that the firm or the corporation represents a legal
entity that is constituted on a nexus of contracts and
that agency costs are generated by each contractual
agreement (Jensen & Meckling, 1976). Fama and
Jensen (1983) analyse how the agency problems
arise in private organizations and analyse the
decision-making process in situation when there is
separation of ownership and control. Furthermore,
these authors explain the steps in the decisionmaking process and boards’ role in this process.
Additionally, they explain the decision hierarchy
and decisions’ agent’s role in this process. Agency
theory also includes some assumption regarding
the human nature, such as those that humans focus
on their self-interest, have bound rationality and
are risk averse (Eisenhardt, 1989). Zahra and
Pearce II (1989) argue that agency theory
recognises and stresses boards’ strategic role,
which includes “boards’ involvement in and
contribution to articulation of the firm’s mission,
the development of the firms’ strategy and setting
of guidelines for implementation and effective
control of the chosen strategy” (p. 302). The main
premise of the resource dependence theory is that
organizations are externally controlled and that
organizational decisions reflect the environmental
pressures (Pfeffer & Salancik, 2003). Furthermore,
Pfeffer and Salancik (2003) argue that
organizations use co-optation and executive
succession as mechanisms for managing
environmental influences (constrains). Zahra and
Pearce (1989) highlight that resource dependence
theory analyses boards as a link to the external
environment and argue that boards’ strategic role
includes the board members’ impact on the
strategic initiatives of strategic choices. Therefore,
the strategic choice theory should also be analysed
as part of the theoretical background of the concept
of boards’ strategic involvement. Child (1972)
argues that besides the environmental pressures,
strategic choices are severely influenced by the
dominant coalitions within the organisation.
Therefore, the strategic choice perspective stresses
that the strategic decision-making process is
influenced by the distribution of power of the
dominant coalitions within the organization and

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

that strategic choices largely depend on the
cognitive abilities of boards’ members and
managers and their interpretation of the
environmental trends and organizational events
(Child, 1997). Therefore, director’s mind-set,
power and the intra-organizational political
process are critical in the phase of strategic
initiatives generations, and the choices
organisations make are largely impacted by
strategic actors’ ability to understand complexity
and to implement the selected alternative (Child,
1997). Consequently, we conclude that this theory
emphasises the importance of the strategic actors’
(which includes boards’ members and managers)
power, mind-set and ability to cope with
complexity as a critical component in the strategic
process. In other words, board members’ ability to
participate in this process is highly determined by
their understanding of the intra-organizational
political processes. The stewardship theory has
different assumptions from the agency theory and
argues that executives are motivated to act as good
stewards, and therefore boards’ structure should be
designed to enable the needed authority and
discretion in the strategic process (in the
formulation as well as in the implementation phase
of the process) (Davis et al., 1997). This theory
assumes that executives act as good stewards in
any situation and, according to the terminology
introduced by the proponents of the agency theory,
the boards should focus more on the decision
management process, rather than on the control of
the executive members. The theory that
dramatically changed the views about the strategic
management process in the last century was the
stakeholder theory, which must be analysed as part
of the theoretical background of this concept. The
term stakeholder (which included shareholders,
employees, customers, suppliers, lenders and
society) was introduced in 1963 in an internal
memorandum of the Stanford Research Institute,
and the main premise of this theory is that “unless
executives understand the needs and concerns of
the stakeholder groups” they could not formulate
objectives and strategies that enable organizational
survival and growth (Freeman, 1984, pp. 31-32).
Furthermore, the proponents of this theory
elaborate the need for incorporating stakeholder
management as part of the strategic management
process, for which the engagement of executives is
required. Additionally, the authors suggest that
firms’ top executives must be included in the
strategic process and work actively on harmonising
their values with the values of the different groups

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

7

8

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

of stakeholders to be able to properly manage the
relations with the external and internal
environment. Moreover, the proponents of the
theory emphasise that top executives accompanied
by other staff experts must be included in all
strategic management processes in the
organization (Freeman, 1984, pp. 66-67).
Regarding the cognitive perspective in the light
of the concept of boards’ strategic involvement,
firstly we are going to elaborate its components,
and afterwards its relationship with the strategy.
According to Braisby and Gellaty (2005),
cognitive psychology “is the branch of psychology
devoted to the scientific study of the mind” (p. 1),
which includes the study of the observable
individual behaviour, as well as the unobservable
processes that lead to the individuals’ behaviour
(each behaviour includes multiple cognitive
processes). The interest in the adoption of the
cognitive approach in management and strategy
research has intensified at the end of the 1980s and
during the 1990s. Particularly interesting insights
regarding cognition and strategy (which are of
primary interest for our study), were elaborated by
Stubbart (1989). Stubbart (1989) argues that there
are three components of cognition that are crucial
for individuals’ involvement in the strategic
management process. These elements are:
1. Intentions which are related to the executives
and non-executives’ motivation to think about
strategic issues and options; 2. Representations
which are related to executives and non-executives
knowledge about strategic management; and
3. Computation which refers to the processes for
encoding, locating, using, changing, manipulating,
sustaining
or
abandoning
the
mental
representations and intentions (Stubbart, 1989, p.
331). Therefore, we can conclude that the boards’
members’ cognition is tightly related to boards’
strategic involvement, and this is the reason why
the cognitive approach has been incorporated as a
theoretical background in some of the behavioural
models of the concept.
Finally, the last theoretical approaches that
must be analysed for fully understanding the
concept of boards’ strategic involvement are those
related to employee engagement, which define the
term “involvement”. The most comprehensive
definition of the term involvement in the context of
organizational sciences has emanated from the
proponents of the theories on employee
engagement. Namely, there are two dominant
theories (Saks & Gruman, 2014) in the scientific
research of employee engagement: the one that

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

relies on the research related to job burnout and
employee well-being and the one that relies on the
research in psychology and sociology related to the
roles individuals occupy at work and to what
degree. Khans’ work (1990) enables us to
understand how individuals occupy certain roles,
how they are drawn to perform the tasks within
each role they have and the so called “self-in role”
processes, which is relevant for our topic since it
gives an insight on how directors (or board
members) are motivated for fulfilling the tasks
included in the boards’ strategic role and how we
can analyse theirs dedication to the strategic tasks.
The second theoretical approaches related to
employee engagement are those that are focused on
researching job-burnout (Maslach & Leither,
1997), which understand employee engagement as
opposite condition to job burnout. Maslach and
Leither (1997, p. 161) explain that the
psychological state of engagement (or burnout) has
three components – energy, involvement and
effectiveness – and define involvement as “degree
of concern and cynicism about work”.
To sum up, the development of all these
theoretical approaches has enabled the research on
boards’ strategic involvement as separated
concepts. Basically, the theories that define the
scope of boards’ strategic role (agency and
resource dependence theory), the theories that
broaden the understanding of the strategic
management process and explain how strategic
choices are or should be made by the individual
(stewardship theory, stakeholder theory, strategic
choice theory and cognitive perspective), as well as
the theories that form the foundation of the
employee engagement as a separate concept must
be taken into consideration for understanding
boards’ strategic involvement, its essence and
elements.
Evolution of thought

The boards’ members’ strategic involvement has
been driving the attention of both practitioners and
academics since the early 1970s. The reasons for
increased interest in boards’ involvement in
strategy, and the internal governance mechanisms
in the 1970s were related to the fact that several
large corporations in the USA, managed by
professional full-time executives, experienced
difficulties in operation (Cheffins, 2015).
Basically, the interest in this area has increased as
the pitfalls of “managerial capitalism” became
more visible.
Regarding the evolution of thought on boards

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

strategic involvement, through the analysis of 150
articles published between 1972 and 2007,
Pugliese et al. (2009) identified three periods: the
first one is called the emerging debate on boards’
strategic involvement (1972-1989), the second one
is called the heyday of input-output approaches
(1990-2000) and the third one is named towards
more pluralism in the board-strategy debate (20012007). In the last period (2008-2020), Bezemer et
al. (2023) found that the authors, besides
investigation of the traditional variables and
constructs, also focus on the relevance of the
organizational context and the underlining
dynamics and processes.
Consequently, it can be noted that boards’
strategic involvement in the past few decades has
significantly developed and generated new insights
regarding boards’ tasks and behaviours. Besides, as
a result of the corporate scandals and crisis, as well
as of the changes in the external environment,
boards’ tasks and roles have also evolved, which
has been particularly evident during the Covid-19
period and in the so-called post-pandemic period.
Therefore, the increasing number of papers within
this research area have generated a substantive
knowledge base (which according to Torraco, 2005
and Snyder, 2019 are the characteristics of a mature
topic), and have created the opportunity for
conducting an integrative literature review. The
main purpose of this integrative literature review is
the synthesis of the existing knowledge and the
presentation of a classification of the models that
represent the essence of this topic.
Namely, the proliferation of models started
when the lack of a suitable model was perceived as
one of the main obstacles to boards’ involvement
in strategy (Rosenstein, 1987). In accordance with
our understanding, other barriers for boards’
involvement into strategy include: the boards
members’ lack of knowledge and expertise for
certain issues; boards’ dynamics; the CEO power
and his/her perception about the role of other
boards’ members; and finally, the attitude boards’
members have about the execution of their
strategic role (do they support the active or passive
school of thought as elaborated by Levrau & Van
den Berghe, 2007).
Aim and structure of the paper

This paper aims to: 1. create a comprehensive
overview of boards’ strategic involvement models,
and to systematize them accordingly, whereby the
foundation of this multidisciplinary research area
can be clearly identified; and 2. to identify the main

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

topics in the articles researching boards’ strategic
involvement published in the past 5 years and draft
the future research agenda.
The methodology employed for investigating
boards’ strategic involvement are explained in
section 1. The key findings are elaborated in
section 2. This section has three parts: the first part
is dedicated to identification of the models that
represent the core of the concept of boards’
strategic involvement; the second part is dedicated
on the identification of current research themes in
this area; and the third part on drafting future
research agenda. From a methodological point of
view, the first part of this section represents an
integrative literature review, and the second part is
a semi-structured literature review. The third
section of the paper includes Discussion and the
fourth - Conclusion.

1. Methodology
For conducting the integrative literature review we
selected papers analysing boards’ strategic
involvement using different theories and
perspectives, from several disciplines and subdisciplines: management, strategic management
and economics. In the first step we identified eight
(8) papers that developed comprehensive models
on boards’ strategic involvement. The following
eight models were selected in the first phase of the
literature review: the model of Zahra and Pearce II
(1990); the model of Judge and Zeithaml (1992);
the model of McNulty and Pettigrew (1999); the
model of Forbes and Milliken (1999), the
Rindovas’ model (1999); the model developed by
Pye and Camm (2003); the model developed by
Drew and Kaye (2007); and the Ghayas’ model
(2011). All selected models were published in
prominent/reputable
journals
from
the
management
research
area
(European
Management Journal, Academy of Management
Journal, Organizational Studies, Academy of
Management Review, Journal of Management
Studies, Journal of General Management and
European Management Journal, respectively),
except for the last one, which was published in a
Working Paper of the University of Strasburg,
Faculty of Economics and Management.
The reason for including these eight models is
in the fact that they incorporate several different
perspectives/approaches for explaining the essence
of the concept. Namely, as we have already
mentioned, boards’ strategic involvement is
multidisciplinary research and therefore if the
authors relied only on one theory (for example,

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

9

10

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

only on agency theory without incorporating any
other theory or approach used in the organizational
sciences), they would fail to demonstrate the
complexity of the topic. Hence, our reasoning is
that only the models that rely on other approach
besides the agency theory (although this does not
mean that agency theory has to be included) or
explain the relation of boards’ strategic role with
the overall organizational performance should be
included in this analysis.
In the second step, we analysed the papers by
conducting an exploratory inductive analysis to
understand on which theories or approaches they
rely on. This resulted in the generation of Table 1
where we present the models that constitute the
core of the concept and which criteria each of them
meets.
In the third step we analysed the models’
elements, classified them in three categories and
identified the similarities and differences between
the models within each group.
The methods used in these three steps were
thematic analysis and content component analysis
as described by Bergman et al. (2017).
Furthermore, to investigate the current topics in
this research area, we conducted a semi-systematic
literature review. This approach gives an
opportunity for identifying the most researched
issues related to boards’ involvement in strategy
and drafting the future research agenda. Although
the semi-systematic literature review is less
rigorous than the structured literature review, it
gives an overview of the existing knowledge in the
field and has been used in social sciences in the
past few decades (Snyder, 2019).
The semi-systematic literature review was
conducted in several steps: 1. we identified the key
research articles in this area published in the period
between 2019 and 2023; 2. we analysed them by
reading only the title and the abstract and classified
them in three groups in accordance with their
relevance for the research questions addressed in
this study; 3. we read and analysed the full articles
which resulted in their reclassification and
identification of the most popular topics in this
research area in the past five years. The key words
identified used for selecting the articles were:
boards and strategy, strategic involvement of the
boards; and boards and strategic decision making.
Overall, sixty-four research articles were selected
in the first phase. After analysing the articles’
content and the journal in which they were
published the total number of articles included in
this part of the study was forty-eight (48). The last

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

phase included identification of the topics
addressed in these studies, which were published in
journals indexed in Scopus and SCI in the period
between 2019 and 2023.

2. Key findings
2.1. Boards’ strategic involvement models
classification

The identified models of boards’ involvement in
strategic decision-making are systematized broadly
in the following groups: generic (basic or general)
models, behavioural models, and integrative
models. Some of them were created as part of
empirical studies, while others were created in
conceptual papers. The identified three types of
models differ in the definition of the concept, the
factors identified as determinants/predictors of
boards’ strategic involvement and the expected
outcomes of boards’ strategic involvement. The
classification of boards’ strategic involvement
models is presented in Figure 1.
The first group of models (generic, basic or
general models) includes the models developed by
Zahra and Pearce II (1990), and Judge and
Zeithaml (1992). According to Maasen (2002), the
most prominent characteristics of the general
models of boards’ involvement in strategy are that
boards’ attributes, such as boards’ composition or
structure are recognized as important determinants
of boards’ strategic involvement, models recognize
external pressures; and that boards’ strategic
involvement impacts overall organizational
performance.

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

Table 1 Models included in the integrative literature review and the criteria they met
Criteria
Model

Does it explains the relation of
boards' strategic involvment with
organizational performance?

Approach
No approached/theory described in this paper. However, in their
previous works on defining boards’ strategic roles authors rely
on agency and resource dependence theory (Zahra & Pearce II,
1989).
Institutional and strategic choice perspective

Yes

No

Rindova, 1999

Agency and resource dependance theory, as well as some
approaches from organizational sociology.
Upper echelons and strategic choise perspective, cognitive
approach and approaches from organizational sociology.
Agency theory and cognitive approach.

Yes

Pye and Camm, 2003

Agency and transaction cost theory, stewardship theory,
resource dependance theory, class hegemony, and managerial
hegemony.
Stakeholder theory.

Yes

Agency and transaction cost theory, stakeholder theory, class
hegemony and legalistic perspective.

Yes

Zahra and Pearce II, 1990
Judge and Zeithmal, 1992
McNultty and Pettigrew, 1999
Forbes and Millicken, 1999

Drew and Kaye, 2007
Ghaya, 2011

Yes

Yes
No

Source: the authors’ construction

Figure 1 Classification of boards’ strategic involvement models
Source: the authors’ construction

The main differences between the two models
refer to how authors identify the determinants of
boards’ strategic involvement, more specifically
which boards’ characteristics are analysed as
determinants of boards’ strategic involvement, the
role of the organizational performances in the
model and the methods used for testing the
hypothesis. Namely, to develop the model Judge
and Zeithaml (1992) use the institution and
strategic choice perspective, while Zahra and
Pearce II (1990) do not elaborate any theoretical
approach as a foundation for the model they
constructed. Furthermore, the model developed by
Judge and Zeithaml (1992) includes determinants,

as well as outcomes of/from boards’ strategic
involvement. Zahra and Pearce II (1990), in
contrast, focus only on the determinants.
Moreover, in the analysis of the determinants,
Judge and Zeithaml (1992) use only the formal
characteristics of board composition (boards size
and insider representation), together with
organizational age and level of diversification,
while Zahra and Pearce II (1990) include several
boards characteristics: representation of outsider
directors, directors’ experience, efficiency on
internal board operations, board independence and
criticality of board contribution which refers to the
argument that if boards’ role is perceived as more

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

11

12

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

valuable, more discretion will possess (Zahra &
Pearce II, 1990, p. 167). Additionally, these two
models differ significantly in their understanding
of the position of organizational performances in
the model. Namely, according to Zahra and Pearce
(1990), the organization performance gap should
be investigated as predictor of boards’ strategic
involvement, since “…boards are likely to become
more involved in the strategic process at times of
major corporate crises” (Zahra & Pearce II, 1990,
p. 167). On the other hand, in the Judge and
Zeithaml model, organizational performance is
analysed as an outcome. Regarding definition,
Zahra and Pearce II (1990) explain that boards’
strategic involvement covers the attention boards
give to strategy, while alternatively Judge and
Zeithaml (1992) understand the concept as boards’
contribution in strategy formulation and
evaluation. Finally, Zahra and Pearce II (1990) use
a questionnaire as method for data gathering and
testing the hypothesis, while Judge and Zeithaml
(1992), use telephone interviews with directors.
The second group of models, the behavioural
models, includes the frameworks that recognize
structural characteristics of boards’ composition
and environmental pressures as determinants of
boards’ strategic involvement, but also include
predictors related to boards’ dynamics. Most of the
models placed in this group were developed at the
end of the second and the beginning of the third
period, since this group includes the models
constructed by McNulty and Pettigrew (1999),
Forbes and Milliken (1999), Rindova (1999), and
Pye and Camm (2003).
McNulty and Pettigrew (1999) conducted
research on boards’ involvement in capital
investment decision process. The most significant
contribution of this model is the identification of
the levels of boards’ strategic involvement.
Furthermore, McNulty and Pettigrew (1999) argue
that the influences that determine boards’ strategic
involvement can be classified in two categories:
contextual (increased attention to boards’ duties,
crisis in business performance and directors’
contracts) and processual influences (boards’
agenda and meetings, informal interim dialog).
Forbes and Milliken (1999) introduce the
cognitive perspective in the research of boards’
strategic involvement and try to understand the
determinants of boards’ task performance, which
include
boards’
characteristics
(boards’
demographic characteristics), boards’ cognitive
conflicts and boards’ characteristics as a group.
Forbes and Milliken (1999) argue that the

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

influence of boards’ characteristics is indirect,
through their impact on the boards’ processes, and
recognize the relation of the tasks within the
boards’ roles and the impact of boards’
cohesiveness on its’ ability to perform the tasks.
Moreover, these authors imply that boards’ task
performance has an impact on overall
organizational performance.
Rindova (1999) published her contribution in
the same year as the previous authors and
according to this model, the determinants of
boards’ strategic involvement include: boards’
size, boards’ composition, boards’ relationships,
decision complexity and uncertainty and directors’
expertise. Rindova (1999) understands boards’
strategic involvement as directors’ engagement
and proposes that directors’ strategic participation
is related to better decision quality. Rindova (1999)
does not claim that director’s strategic involvement
is related to organizational performance.
Pye and Camm (2003) developed a model that
has three key elements: environmental and
contextual factors that influence non-executive
directors’
roles
and
boards’
roles,
conceptualizations of boards’ roles and
conceptualization of non-executive directors’
roles. The contextual and environmental factors
that influence the non-executive directors’ roles
and boards’ roles include: the extent of regulation
within the industry, the presence of influential
stakeholders outside the organization, commercial
requirements of the organization to develop new
core competencies or to enter new markets, the
potential for mergers and acquisitions activity, and
perceived level of risk to the organization. Pye and
Camm (2003) explain the role and contribution of
boards throughout the learning board model that
they have constructed. More specifically, Pye and
Camm (2003) imply that board members have two
potentially conflicting agendas - performing and
conforming. In the interception of these two
dimensions of performance and conformance, the
authors have identified four different aspects of
boards’ contribution. Namely, when boards are
concerned with short-term performance and
external conformance, they focus closely on
accountability. When boards are focusing on shortterm performance and internal conformance their
main role is management supervision. In situations
where boards’ members focus on long-term
performance and external conformance, they give
contribution by policy formulation. And when
boards focus on long-term performance and
internal conformance boards’ members engage in

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

strategic thinking. Besides, Pye and Camm (2003)
suggest that the key aspects of non-executive
directors’ role are: contribution to strategy
formulation, ensuring the company has the right
CEO, ensuring that business development
strategies are in place, ensuring the board is
focused on maximizing long-term shareholder
value, ensuring that risk management strategies are
in place, and ensuring that the management team is
competent.
The models included in this category are
attempting to explain boards’ strategic
involvement by simplifying their processes and
boards’ behaviour as a group, and by
simultaneously emphasizing the uncertainty of the
environment in which they operate. As Ginsberg
(1994) explains, the strategy development process
includes
convergence
of
the
available
sociocognitive
resource
(human
and
organizational). For the human resources, the most

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

important are the practical problem-solving and
verbal abilities and their social competencies,
while in terms of the organizational resource, the
ability to implement mapping and modelling
techniques and to design proper structures and
incentive systems are perceived as crucial
(Ginsberg, 1994). Therefore, the boards’ ability for
meaningful participation in strategy is largely
dependent on the sociocognitive characteristics of
the individual boards’ members, and of the board
as a group. The behavioural models of boards’
strategic involvement are important, since they
investigate how boards approach the grand tree
problem of decision-making (identified by
Levinthal & March, 1993): ignorance, ambiguity,
and conflict. The key features of the behavioural
models of boards’ strategic involvement are
presented in Table 2.

Table 2 Comparison of behavioural models of boards’ strategic involvement
Models’ elements
Definition of boards’ involvement in
strategic decision-making
McNulty and
Pettigrew 1.
Factors influencing boards’
Defined through the levels of
(1999)
strategic involvement
participation
2.
Boards’ strategic involvement
levels
3.
Description of boards’
behavior on each level of
involvement
Forbes and Milliken (1999)
1.
Determinants of boards
Performing tasks for fulfilling boards’
strategic involvement
strategic role
2.
Board-level results
3.
Firm-level results
Directors’ participation in strategy
Rindova (1999)
1.
Determinants: boards’ size,
formulation, or in scanning,
boards’ composition, boards’
interpretation of the available
relationships, decision
information and choosing the most
complexity and uncertainty,
suitable alternative.
directors’ expertise
2.
Determining directors’
contribution in strategy
3.
Directors’ contribution
outcomes
Pye and Camm (2003)
1.
Factors influencing boards’
Contribution to the strategy
strategic involvement;
formulation process for achieving
2.
Boards’ contribution and
the desired level of performance in a
roles;
given organizational environment.
3.
NEDs’ roles and contribution

Expected outcomes
Do not investigate the outcomes of
boards’ strategic involvement.
Rather, they are more focused on
the definition of the concept and on
the determinants.
Impact on boards’ effectiveness and
on organizational performances
Improving decision quality

Expected impact on organizational
performances.

Source: the authors’ construction

The third group of models is the group of
integrative models. In this group, we have included
the models of Drew and Kaye (2007) and Ghaya
(2011). These models have been developed at the
end of the third and in the fourth period of research
in this area. Ghaya (2011) has developed an
integrative model as an end result of an extensive
literature review. On the other hand, the model
developed by Drew and Kaye (2007) is an output
of their research and broad experience. The

implications of the model developed by Ghaya
(2011) are more theoretical, while the model of
Drew and Kaye (2007), besides the theoretical
contribution, also has significant practical value.
Ghaya (2011) defines boards’ strategic
involvement as job (work) involvement. Ghaya’s
(2011) model includes the internal factors and
environment characteristics as determinants of
boards’ strategic involvement. This conceptual
framework also, classifies the results of the boards’

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

13

14

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

strategic involvement in two groups: corporate
performances (measured by both quantitative and
qualitative indicators) and results related to quality
of strategic decisions.
On the other side, the model developed by
Drew and Kaye (2007) includes: clear
identification of responsibilities in the strategic
process, analysis of the agenda setting process and
suitable attention management, by using the
Strategic scorecard. Drew and Kaye (2007) argue
that the responsibilities of the boards include:
monitoring of implementation, strategic review
and learning. For achieving a higher level of
directors’ accountability, Drew and Kaye (2007)
propose implementing the Strategic scorecard. The
Strategic scorecard has four quadrants. The first
quadrant refers to the boards’ attention on the
strategy development, i.e. the boards’ involvement
in developing companies’ vision, mission, goals,
strategies and the identification of the critical
success factors. The second quadrant focuses on
boards’ involvement in generating strategic
alternatives for scope changes and offering
directions for growth (Drew & Kaye, 2007). The
third quadrant refers to boards’ involvement in
strategic implementation (developing plans,

programs and selecting projects). Finally, the
fourth quadrant focuses on boards’ involvement in
managing strategic risks (properly assessing risks
and creating contingency/recovery plans). The use
of the Strategic Scorecard enables examination of
the key aspects in strategic management, creates a
better climate for communication and learning by
board members and is suitable for customization
(Drew & Kaye, 2007).
The two integrative models differ by their goal
in analysing the concept, the attention on the
definition of the concept and the elements
included. Ghaya (2011), to create the model,
conducts an in-depth analysis of the theoretical
debate and focuses on offering an exhaustive
definition of the concept. On the other side, Drew
and Kaye (2007) focus more on explaining the
advantages and the use of the Balance scorecard
and on explaining the key features of the Strategic
scorecard. Their goal is designing a tool than can
enhance boards’ strategic involvement and make
directors more accountable in performing their
strategic tasks. The integrative models’
characteristics are presented in Table 3.

Table 3 Comparison of integrative models of boards’ strategic involvement
Models’ elements
Definition of boards’ involvement in
strategic decision-making
Drew
and
Kaye (2007)

1.
2.
3.

Ghaya (2011)

1.
2.
4.

Expected outcomes

Clear identification of responsibilities in
the process;
Analysis of the agenda setting issues and
suitable attention management;
Using a framework for managing boards’
strategic involvement (Strategic
scorecard)

Defining
responsibilities
within
strategy process and its contribution
for strategic positioning, developing
strategic
options,
strategy
implementation
and
analyzing
strategic risks.

Expected impact on boards’
effectiveness and organizational
performances.

Antecedents of boards’ involvement in
strategic decision-making;
Key activities for boards’ strategic
involvement;
Effects of boards’ strategic involvement.

Boards’ job involvement

Expected effects of boards’
strategic
involvement
for
organizational
performances
(measured by using qualitative and
quantitative measures) and for
decisions’ quality.

Source: the authors’ construction

2.2. Current topics

The analysis of the forty-eight articles published in
the period 2019-2023, selected as described in the
section Methodology, resulted in identification of
two broad topics, that were combined in some
articles, and which have several sub-topics. In
general, each article was classified in one of the
broad topics (or so called first-level subtopics) we

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

have identified. The first board topic is “strategic
involvement” and the second one is “strategic
performance”. For the purposes of this literature
review, we define the general boards’ strategic
involvement as a topic that includes all the studies
related to analysis of boards’ participation and
influence (through several practices, processes and
mechanisms) on the overall strategic process
(strategy formulation, implementation and

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

strategic control), as well as in planning and
implementing strategic change (the components of
the definition of boards’ strategic involvement, as
proposed by different authors are presented in
Figure 2). The second topic, “strategic
performance” includes all the studies that
investigate the relation of boards’ characteristics,
activities and/or tasks, with firm-level strategic
and/or financial performance, or boards’ impact on
strategic organizational performance. The second
topic is more recently developed, most of all as a
result of the identified gap within the existing
literature on the mechanisms that connect boards
strategic thinking and acting with achieving higher
organizational performances. The analysis of the
strategic performance on boards, per se, is not
sufficient. Furthermore, the topics or issues in
which boards take active participation in the past
few decades have dramatically changed because of
the changes in the organizational priorities
(sustainability become a top priority), which lead
to adjustment in this research area, and the
development of this first-level subtopic.
Out of the 48 articles we have analysed, 37 are
categorized in the first main topic – strategic
involvement, while 11 area categorized in the
second main topic – strategic performance. In the

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

first round of analysis, 4 articles were classified in
the both first-level subtopics, and after iterated
analysis those articles were classified in one of the
identified first-level subtopics.
Within the two (2) board topics (or first-level
subtopics), we have identified several subtopics (or
second-level subtopics). The first broad topic
“strategic involvement” includes three subtopics:
strategic human resource management (n=19),
board processes (n=11), and sustainability (n=7).
The second main topic, so-called “strategic
performance”, includes articles that are categorized
in the following three (3) subtopics: sustainable
performance, which includes articles investigating
the influence of board characteristics and activities
on long-term financial, social, and environmental
performance (n=7); financial performance that
includes articles investigating the impact of boards
characteristics and activities only on the
organizations’ financial performance (n=3) and
other performance. In the last subtopic we have
classified one article that investigates other type of
strategic
organizational
performance
(the
organizations’ advocacy performance). The
identified first level and second level sub-topics are
presented in Figure 3.

Figure 2 Components of boards’ strategic involvement
Source: the authors’ construction

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

15

16

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

Figure 3 Boards’ strategic involvement – topics and subtopics identified in semi-structured literature review
Source: the authors’ construction

The most significant subtopic in the strategic
involvement main topic is the topic strategic
human resource management. In this subtopic we
have included the articles that investigate the issues
related to recruiting and selecting board members
(the succession of board members and CEOs, n=7),
the importance of boards human capital (n=4) and
strategic leadership within the board and of the
board as a group (n=6). Separately, we are also
going to discuss the findings related to boards’
involvement in issues related to workplace safety
(Lornudd et al., 2021) and DEI (Morgan et al.,
2021).
The recruiting and selection processes are one
of the most investigated subtopics in boards’
involvement in strategic human resource
management. Namely, some authors are interested
in the determinants of boards’ gender diversity
(Mikkonen et al., 2021; Blommaert & Van der
Brink, 2020; and Mensi-Klarbach & Seierstad,

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

2020), while others are interested whether the
negative performance feedback influences board
diversity in terms of their expertise (Jung et al.,
2023). Jung et al. (2023) present evidence that the
negative performance feedback leads to increased
board expertise diversity, regardless of the other
demographic characteristic of the boards’ member
candidates. Zenou et al. (2020) contribute by
emphasising the importance of the boards’
recruitment process and argue that this process
represents a specific strategic answer that should
be implemented properly in order to provide the
expected outcomes. Additionally, Zenou et al.
(2020) suggest that board diversity does not
include only the board members’ demographic
characteristics and argument that board members’
education, expertise and networks are critical for
implementing innovation. Therefore, these authors
focus on the human capital requirements as a
criterion for selecting new board members. The

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

other two articles within this subgroup investigate
the CEO succession process from strategic change
perspective (Zhu et al., 2020) and from the
resource availability perspective (Campopiano et
al., 2020). Zhu et al. (2020) present evidence that
insider CEOs prioritize strategic change in
situation in which they have prior board experience
in other companies. Therefore, this study has
significant theoretical and practical implications,
since it attempts to identify how CEOs’ strategic
priorities are shaped. On the other hand,
Campopiano et al. (2020) argued that CEO human
capital represents a significant organizational
resource, even in a family company, and that its
importance may diminish the influence of the
intentions for appointing a family member as CEO.
However, this conclusion largely depends on the
role of competitive strategic resources and the
extent of family involvement in the management.
The other subtopic, called human capital,
includes the articles that research the influence of
boards’ members human capital on the
organization strategy formulation (Aber &
Torchia, 2019; Fernandez & Sundaramurthy, 2020;
Calabrò et al., 2021) and the overall strategic
process (Klarner et al., 2021). Aber and Torchia
(2019) investigate the relation between boards’
managerial human capital (using the perspectives
of the upper echelon and dynamic managerial
capabilities) and boards’ involvement in strategic
change. Their results have showed that boards’
managerial human capital have positive impact on
the boards’ capabilities and through them on the
preparation of decisions that lead to strategic
change. Fernandez and Sundaramurthy (2020)
have argued that in formulation of international
merger and acquisition strategy, the boards’
international experience and expertise can be used
only when the CEO has his/her own international
experience. Calabrò et al. (2021) have investigated
the association between boards’ family members’
human capital and innovation strategy. Klarner et
al. (2021) have introduced the capabilities-based
view of boards’ actions and imply that boards’
members capabilities are crucial for executing the
activities that are integrated in the boards’ strategic
role. In the capabilities-based view of boards’
actions, the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other
characteristics (KSAO) of board members are
crucial for fulfilling boards’ roles. In their
conceptual framework, Klarner et al. (2021)
distinguish 3 types of KSAOs: task-specific, teamgeneric and firm-specific KSAOs. By introducing
this approach Klarner et al. (2021) imply that

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

boards’ work is an organizational issue that should
be addressed by using the same approaches that are
used for researching other phenomena within
organizations.
Closely related to the human capital research
issues are those related to strategic leadership.
Namely, within this group we have included the
articles that are investigating which managerial or
leadership capabilities should be demonstrated by
the board members (especially board chair) for
achieving a higher level of boards’ strategic
involvement (Castellanos & George, 2020;
Luciano et al., 2020; Nahum & Carnelli, 2019;
Morais et al., 2020; Kanadli et al., 2020; Sidhu et
al., 2021). Castellanos and George (2020)
distinguish the terms strategic leadership and
strategic management and suggest that CEOs are
more occupied in the activities related to strategic
management, while the whole board (as a team)
should be engaged in practicing strategic
leadership. Luciano et al. (2020), on the other hand,
analyse the board and top management team as a
strategic-oriented multiteam system or a strategic
leadership system and theorize that fulfilling the
boards’ strategic role implies that boards are
working as part of this kind of systems.
Furthermore, Luciano et al. (2020) stress that
boards’ effectiveness in fulfilling this task depends
on boards’ capacity to work independently and
interdependently with the top management team on
strategic management. On the other side, Nahum
and Carnelli (2019) attempt to investigate the
reasons for differences in directors’ individual
participation in the strategic process. The findings
presented by Nahum and Carnelli (2019) suggest
that boards’ leadership style (their sources and
influence on board dynamics) is a key predictor of
directors’ individual contribution in strategy. One
of the main conclusions in the Nahum and Carnelli
(2019) study is that directors increase their lever of
strategic decision-making involvement when board
chairs’ influence is based on expertise and referent
power and when he displays a professional, nonego driven and open-minded behaviour. Morais et
al. (2019) investigating the consequences of
discontinuous change as a predictor of the type of
leadership demonstrated by the board chair.
Namely, Morais et al. (2019) concluded that when
the organization is faced with relational internal
problems because of disruptive change, the board
chair is more likely to demonstrate relational
leadership, while when faced with relational
external problems the chairman and CEO are both
more prone to demonstrating disruptive leadership.

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

17

18

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

On the other side, if the problems are less complex
(performance changes or new products/market are
identified) the adoption of transformational and
entrepreneurial leadership style is more likely
(Morais et al., 2019). Kanadli et al. (2020) argue
that directors’ job-diversity can increase board
strategic involvement only when the chairperson is
capable of exercising leadership behaviour. To be
specific, when the chairpersons are capable of
displaying their talents during board meetings,
when they achieve higher levels of leadership
efficacy and when they have previous experience
as a CEO, it is more likely that the board is going
to increase its participation in the strategic process.
Findings of Sidhu et al. (2021) indicate that the
leadership demonstrated by a female chairperson
has the ability to reverse the negative impact that
greater board gender diversity has on introducing
novel strategies. Finally, Calabrò et al. (2021)
suggest that family members in family-owned
companies’ boards display specific type of
strategic leadership that is focused on greater
valorisation of the human capital and therefore
creates an environment that stimulates innovation.
In this second-level subgroup, we also include
articles that discuss the boards’ strategic
involvement in DEI initiatives (Morgan et al.,
2021) and issues related to human resource
workplace safety (Lornudd et al., 2021). Morgan et
al. (2021) argue that boards have to understand the
interests of several groups of shareholders and that
they have the capability and authority to work on
designing DEI related policies and procedures.
Meanwhile, Lornudd et al. (2021) argue that the
boardroom represents a “social arena”, and that
board members have significant impact on CEOs’
priorities and that are able to impose the strategic
and healthy issues as a strategic imperative. These
authors introduce the term “strategic health and
safety” and suggest that organizational health and
safety issues should represent a top-level board
priority. Lornudd et al. (2021) support this thesis
with the argument that health and safety issues
affect employee’s well-being and in turn their
productivity and that are important for building the
employer brand.
Board processes also represent one of the secondlevel subtopics, which includes the articles
investigating boards’ dynamics, roles, and tasks, as
well as board processes and practices, and boards
overall effectiveness. Regarding boards’ strategic
involvement, Bezemer et al. (2023) have identified
key component/elements that this concept
comprises: boards’ strategic-decision making,

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

other boards decisions and activities tightly related
to strategic decision-making (such as: executive
compensation, CSR disclosure, joint venture
activities, CEO strategic behaviour, etc.) which
constitute boards’ strategic role, determinants of
boards’ strategic involvement, and boards’
strategic performance (or effectiveness in
executing the strategic role). The findings of
Benzemer et al. (2023) indicate that in the period
between 2008 and 2020 most of the scholars have
focused on analysing boards’ strategic
performance (boards’ effectiveness in executing
the strategic role). However, focusing only on
boards’ roles and processes and their effectiveness
is not sufficient if it cannot be aligned with the
overall organizational performances. SlomkaGolebiovska et al. (2023) argue that the increased
presence of women in Italian boards has an effect
on the way the strategic tasks are executed. One of
the conclusions in this study is that women are
more critical when accessing organizational
performance, and more willing to articulate their
views during meetings since they are less likely to
be developed in environments in which the CEO
and other board members have been building their
career path. Beshlawy and Ardroumli (2021) are
researching boards’ decision-making process and
turbulent times. Boards’ decision-making process
is just one of the processes that boards’ strategic
involvement includes. However, although episodic
in nature (Klarner et al., 2021), it is essential in
strategy formulation and taking corrective action
when necessary. The findings of Beshlawy and
Ardroumli (2021) indicate that boards’ strategic
decision-making processes has significantly
changed after the 2008, and that boards’ practices
related to making strategic choices have evolved.
Namely, board members have become more aware
of the importance of this process and more
conscious in analysis of the available alternatives.
Furthermore, they find it necessary to distinguish
their
responsibilities
and
managements’
responsibilities in this process (Beshlawy and
Ardroumli, 2021). Squires and Elnahla (2020)
depict boards’ roles from the agency and
stakeholder theory aspects. The integration of these
two perspectives in explaining boards’ roles is one
of the most significant contributions of this study.
The concept proposed by Squires and Elnahla
(2020) incorporates all tasks related to strategy in
the so-called service role. Hamidi and Machold
(2020) investigate boards’ task related to value cocreation and introduce the concept of so-called
service-dominated logic. In the service-dominated

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

logic as a concept, Hamidi and Machold (2020)
highlight the importance of service, collaboration
and systems thinking in the value creation process
(which in broader context refers to the strategic
process). Similarly, with the previous authors point
to the primacy of the servant role over the strategic
board role. However, the findings in our research,
and especially the models designed to deepen the
understanding of the concept of boards’ strategic
involvement, firmly argument the need for separate
analysis of the board’s strategic role. Looking for
the answer to the question “what boards do/should
do”, Boivie et al. (2021, p. 1), have found that
“directors view themselves as strategic partners
with their firms’ executives”. Boivie et al. (2021)
make theoretical contribution by using qualitative
research methods and argument that board
members’ main duty is to be a strategic partner in
the value creation process. The term strategic
partner assumes that board members are constantly
focused on the organizations’ strategies, the
changes in the external and internal environment,
and their contribution to the value creation process
(Boivie et al., 2020), which makes this the most
important boards’ function. Watson and Ireland
(2020), on the other hand, investigate which
processes and practices are included in the boards’
“strategizing” task. According, to Watson and
Ireland (2020) the term ‘strategizing’ or setting
strategic direction includes all the processes related
to strategic planning, and discussions generated on
board meetings and in informal settings related to
making the appropriate strategies choices,
understanding ambiguities and managing them
towards favourable outcomes. Therefore, boards’
strategizing represents a group work and requires
mobilization of all the resources available to
directors. Goldstein (2022) also introduces an
interesting perspective by analysing the strategic
mapping process and boards’ and managements’
role in it. Goldstein’s (2022) contribution in this
research area is in the confirmation that board
members and top management teams are included
in the process of setting the organizations’ strategic
direction and creating the tools for implementation
(or creating the strategic map). The use of these
tools enables the companies’ strategists to align the
interest of different groups of stakeholders, to
communicate the strategy within the organization
properly and to measure the achievements.
Consequently, we can conclude that the boards’
strategizing task also includes the activities related
to developing the strategic map, following strategy
execution, and discussing the organizational

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

performances. The involvement of both teams
included in the so-called strategic leadership
system in the process of ‘depicting the strategy’ is
expected to have positive impact on fulfilling the
task related to strategy executions, as well as
monitoring. Findings of Hermanson et al. (2020)
indicate that if the tensions in the managementdirectors relation are higher, then boards require
more formal approach to strategic planning,
although this leads to creation of certain paradoxes
in boards’ functioning. Finally, Hermanson et al.
(2020), conclude that the organizations’ size and
board members’ experience are key factors for
determining which approach to strategic planning
is going to be acceptable for the board. Klarner et
al. (2020) analyse boards’ involvement only in a
particular strategic aspect – innovation. These
authors’ contribution is in the analysis of the nature
of directors’ involvement in innovation and the
synthesis of its key dimensions: direction, timing,
and formality. Klarner et al. (2020) have identified
two types of boards’ strategic involvement:
differentiated and structured board involvement.
They describe the differentiated board involvement
as involvement that occurs in spontaneous
interaction, in different timing and enables sharing
different types of information and knowledge,
while the structured board involvement is one
characterized by higher formality, which implies
sharing certain type of expertise/knowledge in
fixed and pre-planned meetings. Minciullo and
Pedrini (2019) research the predictors and
consequences of boards’ strategic involvement on
a sample of non-profit organizations. Their
findings indicate that the higher level of
bureaucratic control from the founding
organization leads to increased levels of directors’
involvement in all boards’ tasks and that the main
consequence of the increased boards involvement
is higher organizational effectiveness.
Regarding the next second-level subtopic,
sustainability, it can be noted that this concept has
emerged in the end of the 80-ties and in the past
five years its popularity has increased, due to the
challenges modern societies face. Contemplating
on corporate sustainability research, Bergman et al.
(2017) have constructed a typology that enables
deeper understanding of all the layers that the
concept embodies. Namely, Bergman et al. (2017)
distinguish between three types of corporate
sustainability and nine subtypes: 1. corporate
sustainability in relation with corporate
responsibility;
2.
mono-focal
corporate
sustainability; 3. inclusive approaches to corporate

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

19

20

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

sustainability. For our research purposes, we argue
that the mono-focal corporate sustainability, which
analyses this concept as a strategy, is the most
relevant subtype. This type of corporate
sustainability highlights the activities related to
defining
sustainability
priorities,
its
implementation and communication, and the
importance of the directors’ capability for
implementing the strategies that would make the
organization sustainable (Bergman et al., 2017).
However, some authors investigate corporate
sustainability in relation to the concept of corporate
social responsibility. Most of the articles classified
within this topic address the social and
environmental aspects (Gaio & Concalves, 2022;
Yarram and Adapa, 2021; Peng et al., 2021; and
Issa and Bensalm, 2022), while Kanadli et al.
(2022), Amorelli and Garcia-Sanchez (2020) and
Amorelli and Garcia-Sanchez (2023) investigate
all three aspects of sustainability as a strategy or
strategic activities upon which boards can act. Gaio
and Cancelves (2022) investigate the relation
between board gender diversity and the adoption of
the corporate social responsibility concept, and
their findings indicate that the larger proportion of
women in the board is related to the adoption of the
CRS practices that lead to the creation of more
sustainable companies. Yarram and Adapa (2021)
argue that the mere presence of one woman in a
board is not sufficient for influencing the
company’s strategy, and in particular for
influencing the adoption of the CSR practices.
Their findings support the existence of the effect of
tokenism and argue that women are exposed to the
performance pressure. Therefore, the adoption of
the CSR practices is related to board gender
diversity, but one female director cannot have the
influence that several women would have. Peng et
al. (2021) are interested in investigating the
determinants of corporate social responsibility
practices in multinational companies. The results
presented by Peng et al. (2021) indicate that
boards’ gender diversity is positively related to
environmental and social disclosure, and that
tenure diversity is positively related to social
disclosures of the multinational companies. Issa
and Bensalem (2022) suggest that boards’ gender
diversity has an impact on eco-innovation, and that
this impact is indirect, through the adoption of the
CRS strategy. On the other hand, Kanadli et al.
(2022) have conducted a literature review in which
they conclude that women directors are more
sensitive to the issues related to all three aspects of
sustainability
(economic,
social
and

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

environmental) and that their ability to influence
board agenda depend on boards’ openness and its
structural leadership (board chair). Furthermore,
Amorelli and Garcia-Sanchez (2023) concluded
that companies with higher representation of
women in their boards are more likely to adopt
sustainable practices and that women can give
significant insight in the debates related to
sustainability as a strategy. In general, it can be
noted that most of the studies categorized under
this second-level subtopic are focused on
investigating the factors that lead to greater boards’
involvement in strategic decisions regarding
sustainability, and especially in investigating the
effects of the boards’ gender diversity. The
findings of Amorelli and Garcia-Sanchez (2020)
indicate that organizations are more prone to
implement strategies improving CRS disclosure if
female presence on the board is stronger.
Strategic performance is the second main topic
(or first-level subtopic) within this research area
that has been gaining significant popularity in the
past 5 years. Although the number of articles
classified in strategic performance subtopic is
smaller (n=9) it gives significant insights regarding
the development of the future research agenda.
According to our understanding, and for the
purposes of this study, we define sustainable
performance as a system of measures of the
organizations’ financial results, and the measures
of the effect of corporate social responsibility
activities and strategies on organizations’
reputation and finally, financial performance.
Therefore, we can conclude that these articles
investigate the concept of sustainability from the
triple bottom line (TBL) perspective (also
described by Bergman et al. 2017 as one of the nine
subtypes of sustainability), and analyse how
boards’ characteristics and processes influence
corporate sustainability performance. In a study of
UK listed companies in the period between 2009
and 2016, Orazalin (2019) found that the existence
of sustainability committees within the boards’
structure can increase the effectiveness of
companies’
sustainability
strategy,
and
consequently has a positive impact on
organizations’ sustainable performance. On the
other hand, Orazalin and Baydauletov (2020)
examine the impact of corporate social
responsibility strategy on organizations’ social and
environmental performance, and include board
gender diversity as a moderator of this relation.
Orazalin and Baydauletov (2020) concluded that
corporate social responsibility strategy and board

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

gender diversity are positively related to corporate
social and environmental performance, and that the
positive relation between CSR strategy and
environmental
performance
is
negatively
moderated by board gender diversity. Similarly,
Moussa et al. (2019) have found evidence that
suggest that boards have direct and indirect impact
on organizations environmental performance (or
carbon performance in particular) and that in this
relation the mediating role of the carbon strategy is
crucial. Naciti (2019), on the other hand,
investigated the influence of board diversity,
independence and CEO duality on organizations’
sustainability performance and concluded that
higher level of boards’ diversity and the separation
of CEO and board chair role are positively related
to the sustainability performance components,
while greater board independence is negatively
related to sustainability performance. Chams and
Garcia-Blandon (2019) study the effect of several
board structural characteristics on organizations’
overall sustainable performance. Their findings
indicate that board size, number of board
committees and board gender diversity are
positively related with organizations’ sustainable
performance and that the relation between board
age and organizations sustainable performance is
curvilinear. Martinez-Jimenez et al. (2019) have
investigated how boards gender diversity and
board effectives influence business performance
(in which they include indicators regarding
beneficial consequences, perceived quality,
competitive advantage, survival of the company)
and have concluded that there is a positive and
statistically significant relation between board
effectiveness and business performance, although
they could not identify positive and statistically
significant relation between board gender diversity
and board effectiveness or business performance.
Bannò et al. (2021) suggest that board gender
diversity impact organizations sustainable
activities (including sustainable disclosure) and
through them the organizations sustainable
performance, which in turn determines firm
performance and value. Their research indicates
that the relation between boards’ gender diversity
and organizations’ overall sustainability is
mediated by several variables.
The second group of articles examines the relation
of boards’ characteristics and strategies with
organizations’ financial performance. Carmo et al.
(2022) found that the positive effect of female
directors on companies’ financial performance is
evident only when a critical mass of women is

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

reached. Baghdadi et al. (2020) concluded that
there is a positive and statistically significant
association
between
board
composition
(independence and impartiality) and corporate
default risk. Bayo-Moriones et al. (2020) have
studied the effect of completive strategy on the
performance system (for assessing performance on
individual level, e.g. the performance of the
employees) and their join influence on the
organizational performance. Bayo-Moriones et al.
(2020) findings indicate that the proper alignment
of corporate strategy with the performance
appraisal system has positive and statistically
significant relation with several measures of
financial performance (such as, ROE and sales per
employee).
Therefore,
designing
proper
performance appraisal system for the adopted
completive strategy can lead to improved
organizational performance.
And the last paper that is included in this topic –
strategic performance is the one that analysis the
determinants of the organizations’ advocacy
performance (which represents their ability to
influence citizens; opinions, media agendas,
political parties’ and politicians’ agendas,
parliamentary decisions and governmental
decisions). The study that address this issue was
developed by Vehka and Vesa (2023) on a sample
of 507 board member in 140 associations (or
interest organizations). Vehka and Vesa (2023)
have found that there is a positive relation between
board
meetings,
board
members’
(or
managements’) political experience and most
importantly boards performance in strategic task
with the organizations advocacy performance.
Most of the findings in the paper within this firstlevel subtopic (strategic performance) indicate that
board impact on organizations performance largely
depends on their ability for effective execution of
their strategic task and for formulating strategies
(completive strategies, CRS strategies, or carbon
strategies) that highlight the importance of certain
type of performance (Orazalin, 2019; Orazalin &
Baydauletov, 2020; Moussa et al., 2019; BayoMoriones et al., 2020; Vehka and Vesa, 2023).
2.3. Future research agenda

Although the boards’ strategic involvement has
been analysed in numerous papers with the
application of different approaches, some aspects
seem to remain not sufficiently researched. For
example, it is evident that there is a lack of models
on boards’ strategic involvement in two-tier boards
system. Also, some of the models are designed to

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

21

22

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

answer the question how boards fulfil their
strategic role (Zahra & Pearce II, 1990; Judge and
Zheithaml, 1992, Forbes and Milliken, 1999),
while others focus on the question how directors
fulfil their strategic role (McNulty & Pettigrew,
1999; Rindova, 1999). Those models that
incorporate both levels of involvement (the
strategic involvement of boards as a group and of
directors as individuals, such as the works of Pye
and Camm, 2003; Drew and Kaye, 2007; Ghaya,
2011) are mostly conceptual and prescriptive, and
on individual level cover only strategic
involvement of non-executive directors (Pye and
Camm, 2003) or strategic involvement of
executive directors (Drew and Kaye, 2007). Some
of the relations/conclusions in the conceptual
models should be further empirically tested.
Additionally, none of the models that focus on
directors’ strategic involvement as individual,
incorporates the theoretical propositions of the
literature related to employee engagement,
directly.
Therefore, our recommendation regarding
future research on models of boards’ strategic
involvement should focus on generating models
that incorporate the theoretical propositions of the
theories on employee engagement, where the term
involvement is clearly defined, and models that
incorporate both levels of the concept of boards’
strategic involvement (the strategic involvement of
boards as groups and of directors as individuals).
Furthermore, future research should focus on
generating models that explain how both boards
(the management and the supervisory board) fulfil
their strategic role in the two-tier board system.
Additionally, by synthetizing the most
researched subtopics within the main topic boards’ strategic involvement, we suggest that
further studies on this topic should focus on
answering the following questions:
I.
In relation to the strategic human resource
management sub-topic: 1. How do boards
select new directors? 2. Which criteria are
used for selecting new directors? 3. How do
boards prepare the organization for CEO
change? 4. How do boards manage the
situation in case of CEO turnover? 5. How
can all board members demonstrate
strategic leadership and when is it
expected?
II.
In relation to board processes sub-topic:
1. Does directors’ impact on strategy differ
in accordance with their participation in the
ownership structure? 2. How do boards in

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

III.

IV.

organizations with two-tier board system
collaborate in fulfilling the strategic role?
3. What can boards do to create a context
that support and enhance the strategic
involvement of all their members? 4. Can
the increased level of formalization of
several strategy related processes lead to
greater board strategic involvement?
In relation to sustainability: 1. How do
board members understand sustainability,
as a strategy or as a concept related to
CSR? 2. Does the adoption of sustainability
as a strategy by the board lead to achieving
sustainable organizational performance?
In relation to strategic organizational
performance (as a first level sub-topic):
1. How do boards’ members define
sustainable organizational performance?
2. How and when should boards initiate the
discussion regarding achieving a level of
performance (financial, social, and
environmental) that is sustainable in the
long run? 3. When are boards in the
position to influence strategic choices in
order to ensure the achievement of
sustainable organizational performance?

Discussion
In order to achieve the paper’s purposes, we
conducted an integrative literature review and a
semi-systematic literature review, whose insights
are reported in the section Key findings. The main
outputs of the integrative literature review are the
identification of the core models that shape the
foundations in this research area and the
proposition of their classification. The core models
on boards’ strategic involvement are: the model of
Zahra and Pearce II (1990), the model of Judge and
Zeithaml (1992), the model of McNulty and
Pettigrew (1999), the model of Forbes and Milliken
(1999), the Rindovas’ model (1999), the model
developed by Pye and Camm (2003), the model
developed by Drew and Kaye (2007) and the
Ghayas’ model (2011). The models were classified
in the following three groups: generic (basic or
general) models, behavioural models, and
integrative models. In the group of generic (basic)
models we included the models developed at the
beginning of the second period of the evolution of
thought, in which scientific approaches were used
for addressing these issues for the first-time. These
models try to generate a comprehensive definition
of the concept and investigate the relation of
boards’ strategic involvement and organizational

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

performance. The second group of models, the
behaviour models, were developed at the end of the
second period of the evolution of thought in this
area, incorporate the cognitive approach in the
research of boards’ strategic involvement
(Rindova, 1999) and broadly investigate boards’
processes and dynamics (McNulty & Petigrew,
1999; Forbes and Milliken, 1999; Pye and Camm,
2003). These models also analyse the relation of
boards’ strategic involvement with decisionquality (Ridova, 1999) and organizational
performance (McNulty & Petigrew, 1999; Forbes
and Milliken, 1999; Pye and Camm, 2003). The
last groups of models are the so-called integrative
models that summarise the previous knowledge on
boards’ strategic involvement and add the
stakeholder theory postulates in the theoretical
explanation. In this group we have classified the
model developed by Drew and Kaye (2007) and
Ghaya (2011).
To understand how the research on boards’
strategic involvement has evolved over time we
conducted a semi-structured literature review and
identified the main subtopics in this area in the
period between 2019 and 2023. According to the
thematic analysis of 48 research papers published
in journals indexed in Scopus and SCI in the period
between 2019 and 2023, we have identified the
following sub-topics: strategic involvement which
includes studies on issues related to strategic
human resource management, board processes, and
sustainability; and strategic organizational
performance, which includes research on the
relation of boards’ strategic involvement with
financial performance, the relationship of boards’
strategic
involvement
with
sustainable
performance and with other types of organizational
performance (such as advocacy performance). The
main trends within the second level subtopics,
especially the finding in the studies related to
issues in the area of strategic human resource
management and sustainability and sustainable
organizational performance are expected to shape
the future research agenda in this area.

Conclusion
In conclusion, we can suggest that this paper has
achieved the defined aim by answering the three
research questions defined in the introduction.
Regarding the question “Which are the main
elements of the concept of boards’ strategic
involvement?” we conclude that it includes
research on: the understanding of the boards’
strategic role, the theories that explain the strategic

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

process or the strategic management as
organizational process, the link of the strategic
management
process
with
organizational
performance and sustainability, boards’ process
and working style as a group, the understanding
about directors’ (managerial) cognition and its link
to strategic management, and the understanding of
the involvement as construct that has been
researched through the lens of the employee
engagement theories.
Regarding the question related to the
foundation of this topic, we have identified that the
core of the concept consists of eight models that
deconstruct different aspects of the concepts’
elements. Namely, after defining the boards’
strategic role (in their work published in 1989),
Zahra and Perce II (1990) analyze the factors that
determine boards’ strategic involvement. Judge
and Zeithmal (1992) focus on the antecedents of
boards’ strategic involvement, as well as on the
impact of boards’ strategic involvement on
organizational financial performance. McNultty
and Pettigrew (1999) focus on the impact of
boards’ chairman and non-executive directors on
the strategic process. Rindova (1999) incorporates
the cognitive perspective in the research on this
topic and assumes that directors’ participation is
directly related to decision quality. Pye and Camm
(2003) focus on researching the boards’ strategic
involvement of the board as a group, and of the
non-executive directors, and analyze the contextual
factors influencing boards’ strategic involvement.
Relying on the literature on Balanced Scorecard,
Drew and Kaye (2007) developed the Strategic
Scorecard as a tool for measuring boards’
involvement in the strategy making processes.
Ghaya (2011) united the findings in the existing
literature and created a new integrative model on
boards’ strategic involvement.
Regarding the third question, we can conclude
that while at the beginning of the 1990s the models
of boards’ strategic involvement address the
question how boards fulfill their strategic role
(Zahra & Pearce II, 1990; Judge & Zeithmal,
1992), at the end of the 1990s, with the
proliferation of the so-called behavioral models on
boards’ strategic involvement, the focus shifted
and directors’ strategic involvement also gained
attention (McNulty & Petigrew, 1999; Rindova,
1999; Pye & Camm, 2003). In the first decade of
the 21st century the main interest was directed
towards the issues related to board effectiveness, as
visible from the Drew and Kaye (2007) model
which focuses on developing a tool for measuring

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

23

24

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

how boards perform their strategic role. However,
at the beginning of the second decade of the 21st
century, the focus is on the research of the impact
of boards’ strategic involvement on the different
types of organizational performance, as proposed
by Ghaya (2011). Namely, Ghaya (2011) argues
that boards’ strategic involvement is related to
organizations’ strategic decisions (their origin,
nature, importance, rapidity, and novelty), and
different quantitative indicators (financial
performance indicators) and qualitative indicators
(achievement of strategic objectives, position of
the company in the market, firm survival, product
cost control, serenity of the social climate) of
corporate performance. At the end of the second
decade of the 21st century and the beginning of the
third, most of the research on boards’ strategic
involvement relates to the issues of strategic
human resource management (such as the practices
for recruiting and selecting board members, CEO
succession, the importance of the human capital
and what strategic leadership includes etc.) and
how boards’ strategic involvement can contribute
to
generating
sustainable
organizational
performance.
As elaborated in the introduction the main
motivation for writing this paper was to identify
what constitutes the foundation of this concept and
how the research on this topic has evolved over
time. We may conclude that by assessing the
existing literature critically, by classifying
fundamental works in this research area and by
systemizing the key finding in the recent research
we have uncovered most of the elements of the
concept, explained some of the existing
ambiguities and set the directions for future
research.
Although we have fulfilled the paper’s aim and
answered the key research questions, we should
also note that the study has several limitations.
Firstly, the study incorporates only articles
published in English and most of them written by
authors from the USA and Western European
countries. Secondly, although we elaborate how
the discourse on the topic has changed in the past
few decades, we do not propose a new conceptual
framework since that was not the purpose of this
study and we believe that this should be done in
future research. The purpose of this study was to
assess the existing literature critically, interpret the
understanding of the elements of the concept and
identify the ongoing trends in the research on this
topic.

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

References
Åberg, C. & Torchia, M. (2019). Do boards of directors
foster strategic change? A dynamic managerial
capabilities perspective. Journal of Management and
Governance, 24, 655-684.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10997-019-09462-4
Amorelli, M. F. & García-Sánchez, I. M. (2020). Trends in
the dynamic evolution of board gender diversity and
corporate social responsibility. Corporate Social
Responsibility and Environmental Management, 28(2),
537-554.
https://doi.org/10.1002/csr.2079
Amorelli, M. F. & García-Sánchez, I. M. (2023). Leadership
in heels: women on boards and sustainability in times of
COVID-19. Corporate Social Responsibility and
Environmental Management, 30(4), 1987-2010.
https://doi.org/10.1002/csr.2469
Baghdadi, G. A., Nguyen, L. H. G. & Podolski, E. J. (2020).
Board cooption and default risk, Journal of Corporate
Finance, 64, 101703.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcorpfin.2020.101703
Bannò, M., Filippi, E. & Trento, S. (2023). Women in top
echelon positions and their effects on sustainability: a
review, synthesis and future research agenda. Journal
of Management and Governance, 27, 181–251.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10997-021-09604-7
Bayo-Moriones, A., Galdon-Sanchez, J. E., & Martinez-deMorentin, S. (2021). Business strategy, performance
appraisal and organizational results. Personnel Review,
50(2), 515-534.
https://doi.org/10.1108/PR-09-2019-0498
Bergman, M. M., Bergman, Z., & Berger, L. (2017). An
empirical exploration, typology, and definition of
corporate sustainability. Sustainability, 9(5). 753-766.
https://doi.org/10.3390/su9050753
Beshlawy, H. E. & Ardroumli, S. (2021). Board dynamics
and decision-making in turbulent times. Corporate
Governance and Organizational Behavior Review, 5(1),
57-68.
https://doi.org/10.22495/cgobrv5i1p6
Bezemer, P. J., Pugliese, A., Nicholson, G. & Zattoni, A.
(2023). Toward a synthesis of the board-strategy
relationship: a literature review and future research
agenda. Corporate Governance: an International
review, 31(1),178-197.
https://doi.org/10.1111/corg.12481
Blommaert, L., & Van den Brink, M. (2020). Gender equality
in appointments of board members: the role of multiple
actors and their dynamics. European Mangement
Review, 17(3), 633-647.
https://doi.org/10.1111/emre.12381
Boivie, S., Withers, M. C., Graffin, S. D. & Corley, K. G.
(2021). Corporate directors' implicit theories of the roles
and duties of boards. Strategic Management Journal,
42(9), 1662-1695.
https://doi.org/10.1002/smj.3320
Braisby, N. & Gellatly, A. (2005). Cognitive pshychology.,
London, UK: Oxford University Press.
Calabrò, A., Torchia, M., Jimenez, D.G. & Kraus, S.
(2021). The role of human capital on family firm
innovativeness: the strategic leadership role of family
board members. International Entrepreneurship and
Management Journal, 17, 261–287.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11365-020-00657-y

Bozhinovska & Eftimov
Campopiano, G., Calabrò, A., & Basco, R. (2020). The
“Most Wanted”: the role of family strategic resources
and family involvement in CEO succession intention.
Family Business Review, 33(3), 1-26.
https://doi.org/10.1177/0894486520927289
Carmo, C.; Alves, S. & Quaresma, B. (2022). Women on
boards in Portuguese listed companies: does gender
diversity influence financial performance?
Sustainability, 14(10), 6186.
https://doi.org/10.3390/su14106186
Castellanos, J. D. & George, B. (2020), Boardroom
leadership: the board of directors as a source of
strategic leadership. Economic and Business Review,
6(20-1),103-119.
https://sciendo.com/article/10.18559/ebr.2020.1.5
Chams, N. & García-Blandón, J. (2019). Sustainable or not
sustainable? The role of the board of directors. Journal
of Cleaner Production, 26, 1067-1081.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.04.118
Cheffins, B. R. (2015). Corporate governance since the
managerial capitalism era. Business History Review,
89(4), 717-744.
https://doi.org/10.1017/S0007680515000690
Child, J. (1972). Organizational structure, environment and
performance: the role of strategic choice. Sociology,
6(1), 1-22.
https://doi.org/10.1177/003803857200600101
Child, J.(1997). Strategic choice in the analysis of action,
structure, organizations and environment: retrospect
and prospect. Organization Studies, 18(1), 43-76.
https://doi.org/10.1177/017084069701800104
Claessens, S., & Yurtoglu, B. (2012). Corporate
Governance and Development — An Update.
Washington: International Finance Corporation.
Davis, J. H., Schoorman, F.D. & Donaldson, L. (1997),
Toward a stewardship theory of management, Academy
of Management Review, 22(1), 20–47.
https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.1997.9707180258
Eisenhardt, K. M. (1989). Agency theory: an assessment
and review. The Academy of Management
Review,14(1), 57-74.
https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.1989.4279003
Fama, E. F. & Jensen, M. C. (1983), Separation of
ownership and control. Journal of Law and Economics,
26(2), 301–325.
Fernandez, W. D. & Sundaramurthy, C. (2020). Boards’
relevant experience and international strategy: a recipe
for success or a case of too many cooks?. Global
Strategy Journal, 10(4), 726-749.
https://doi.org/10.1002/gsj.1392
Forbes, D. P., & Milliken, F. J. (1999). Cognition and
corporate governance: understanding boards of
directors as strategic decision-making groups. The
Academy of Management Review, 24(3), 489-505.
https://doi.org/10.2307/259138
Freeman, E. J. (1984). Strategic Management: A
Stakeholder Approach. London, UK: Pitman Publishing
Inc.
Gaio, C. & Gonçalves, T. C. (2022). Gender diversity on the
board and firms corporate social responsibility.
International Journal of Financial Studies 10(15), 1-16.
https://doi.org/10.3390/ijfs10010015

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

Ghaya, H. (2011). Board of directors’ involvement in
strategic decision making process: definition and
literature review. Working Papers of BETA 2011-22,
Bureau d'Economie Théorique et Appliquée, UDS,
Strasbourg. Retrieved May 9, 2021 from:
https://ideas.repec.org/p/ulp/sbbeta/2011-22.html
Ginsberg, A. (1994). Minding the Competition: From
Mapping to Mastery. Strategic Mangement Journal, 15,
153-174.
https://doi.org/10.1002/smj.4250150911
Goldstein, J. C. (2022). Strategy maps: the middle
management perspective. Journal of Business
Strategy, 43(1), 3-9.
https://doi.org/10.1108/JBS-09-2020-0191
Guerra, S. (2022). The black box of corporate governance.
New York: Routledge.
Hamidi, D. Y. & Machold, S. (2020). Governance, boards
and value co-creation – changing perspectives towards
a service dominant logic. European Management
Journal, 38(6), 956-966.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.emj.2020.06.001
Hermanson, D. R., Tompkins, J. G., Veliyath, R. & Ye, Z. S.
(2020). Strategic planning committees on U.S. public
company boards: axiomatic or paradoxical?. Long
Range Planning, 53(5), 101967.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2020.101967
Issa, A. & Bensalem, N. (2022). Are gender-diverse boards
eco-innovative? The mediating role of corporate social
responsibility strategy. Corporate Social Responsibility
and Environmental Management, 30(2), 742-754.
https://doi.org/10.1002/csr.2385
Jensen, M. C. & Meckling, W.H. (1976). Theory of the firm:
managerial behavour, agency cost and ownership
structure. Journal of Financial Economics, 3(4), 305360.
Judge, W. Q., & Zeithaml, C. P. (1992). Institutional and
strategic choice perspectives on board involvement in
strategic decision process. The Academy of
Management Journal, 35(4), 766-794.
https://doi.org/10.2307/256315
Jung, H., Lee, Y. G. & Park, S. H. (2023). Just diverse
among themselves: how does negative performance
feedback affect boards’ expertise vs. ascriptive
diversity?. Organization Science 34(2), 657-679.
https://doi.org/10.1287/orsc.2022.1595
Khan, W. A. (1990). Psychological conditions of personal
engagement and disengagement at work. Academy of
Management Journal, 33(4), 692-724.
https://doi.org/10.5465/256287
Kanadli, S. B., Alawadi, A., Kakabadse, N. & Zhang, P.
(2022). Do independent boards pay attention to
corporate sustainability? Gender diversity can make a
difference. Corporate Governance, 22(7), 1390-1404.
https://doi.org/10.1108/CG-09-2021-0352
Kanadlı, S. B., Zhang, P. & Kakabadse, N. K. (2020). How
job-related diversity affects boards’ strategic tasks
performance: the role of chairperson. Corporate
Governance, 20(4), 583-599.
https://doi.org/10.1108/CG-08-2019-0267
Klarner, P., Probst, G. & Useem, M. (2020). Opening the
black box: Unpacking board involvement in innovation.
Strategic Organization, 18(4), 487-519.
https://doi.org/10.1177/1476127019839321

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

25

26

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

Klarner, P., Yoshikawa, T. & Hiit, M. (2021). A capability
based view of boards: a new conceptual framework for
board governance. Academy of Management
Perspectives, 35,(1), 123-141.
https://doi.org/10.5465/amp.2017.0030

Morais, F., Kakabadse, A. & Kakabadse, N. (2020). Leading
through discontinuous change: a typology of problems
and leadership approaches in UK boards. Long Range
Planning, 53(2). 101870.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2019.02.003

Leblach, R. & Schwarts, M. S. (20070. The black box of
board process: gaining access to a difficult subject.
Corporate Governance, 15(5), 843-851.
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-8683.2007.00617.x

Morgan, D. L., LePeau, L. A. & Commodore, F. (2022).
Observable evidence and partnership possibilities for
governing board involvement in diversity, equity, and
inclusion: a content analysis. Research in Higher
Education, 63, 189–221.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11162-021-09651-x

Levinthal, D. A. & March, G. A. (1993). The myopia of
learning. Strategic Management Journal, Special Issue:
Organization, Decision-making and Strategy, 14, 95112.
https://doi.org/10.1002/smj.4250141009
Levrau, A., & Van den Berghe, L. (2007). Corporate
governance and board effectiveness : beyond
formalism. Vlerick Leuven Gent Working Paper Series
2007/03. Retrieved December 15, 2022 from:
https://repository.vlerick.com/bitstream/handle/20.500.1
2127/2267/Levrau_A_WP_CorporateGovernanceandBo
ardEffectiveness.pdf?sequence=1&isAllowed=y
Lornudd, C., Frykman, M., Stenfors, T., Ebbevi, D., Hasson,
H., Sundberg, C. J. & Von Thiele Schwarz, U. (2021).
A champagne tower of influence: an interview study of
how corporate boards enact occupational health and
safety. Safty science, 143, 1-33.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ssci.2021.105416

Moussa, T., Allam, A., Elbanna, S. & Bani-Mustafa, A.
(2019). Can board environmental orientation improve
US firms’ carbon performance? The mediating role of
carbon strategy. Business Strategy and the
Environment, 29(1), 72-80.
https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.2351
Naciti, V. (2019). Corporate governance and board of
directors: The effect of a board composition on firm
sustainability performance. Journal of Cleaner
Production, 237, 117727.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.117727
Nahum, N., & Carmeli, C. (2019). Leadership style in a
board of directors: implications of involvement in the
strategic decision‑making process, Journal of
Management and Governance, 24, 199-227.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10997-019-09455-3

Luciano, M. M., Nahrgang, J. D. & Shropshire, C. (2020)
Strategic leadership systems: viewing top management
teams and boards of directors from a multiteam
systems perspective. Academy of Management
Review, 45(3), 1-62.
https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.2017.0485

Orazalin, N. (2019). Do board sustainability committees
contribute to corporate environmental and social
performance? The mediating role of corporate social
responsibility strategy. Business Strategy and the
environment, 29(1), 140-153.
https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.2354

Maassen, G. F., (2002), An International Comparison of
Corporate Governance Models, 3ed. Amsterdam:
Spencer Stuart.

Orazalin, N. & Baydauletov, M. (2020). Corporate social
responsibility strategy and corporate environmental and
social performance: the moderating role of board
gender diversity. Corporate Social Responsibility and
Environmental Management, 27(4), 1664-1676.
https://doi.org/10.1002/csr.1915

Martinez-Jimenez, R., Hernández-Ortiz, M.J. & Cabrera
Fernández, A. I.. (2019). Gender diversity influence on
board effectiveness and business performance.
Corporate Governance, 20(2), 307-323.
https://doi.org/10.1108/CG-07-2019-0206
Maslach, C., & Later, M. P. (1997). The truth about burnout:
how organizations cause personal stress and what to
do about it. San Francisco, USA: John Willey & Sons.

Peng, X., Yang, Z., Shao, J. & Li, X. (2021). Board diversity
and corporate social responsibility disclosure of
multinational corporations. Applied Economics, 53(42),
4884-4898.
https://doi.org/10.1080/00036846.2021.1910620

McNulty, T., & Pettigrew, A. (1999). Strategist on the board.
Organization Studies, 20(1), 47-74.
https://doi.org/10.1177/0170840699201003

Pfeffer, J. & Salancik, G. R. (2003). The External Control of
Organizations. Stanford, California: Stanford University
Press.

Mensi-Klarbach, H., & Seierstad, C. (2020). Gender Quotas
on Corporate Boards: Similarities and Differences in
Quota Scenarios. European Management Review,
17(3), 615-631.
https://doi.org/10.1111/emre.12374

Pugliese, A., Bezemer, P. J., Zattoni, A., Huse, M., Van den
Bosch, F. A. J., & Volberda, H. W. (2009). Boards of
directors’ contribution to strategy: a literature review
and research agenda. Corporate Governance: An
International Review, 17(3), 292–306.
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-8683.2009.00740.x

Mikkonen, M. , Stenvall, J. & Lehtonen, K. (2021). The
paradox of gender diversity, organizational outcomes,
and recruitment in the boards of national governing
bodies of sport. Administrative Sciences 11(4), 141157.
https://doi.org/10.3390/admsci11040141
Minciullo, M. & Pedrini, M. (2019). Antecedents of board
involvement and its consequences on organisational
effectiveness in non‑profit organisations:a study on
European corporate foundations. Journal of
Managemnt and Governance, 24,531-555.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10997-019-09480-2

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

Pye, A., & Camm, G. (2003). Non-executive directors:
moving beyond the ‘one-size-fit-all’ view. Journal of
General Management, 28(3), 52-70.
https://doi.org/10.1177/030630700302800304
Rindova, V. P. (1999). What corporate boards have to do
with strategy: a cognitive perspective. Journal of
Management Studies, 36(7), 953-975.
https://doi.org/10.1111/1467-6486.00165
Rosenstein, J. (1987). Why don’t boards get more involved
in strategy?. Long Range planning, 20(3), 30-34.
https://doi.org/10.1016/0024-6301(87)90069-0

Bozhinovska & Eftimov
Saks, A. M., & Gruman, J. A (2014). What do we really
know about employee engagement?. Human Resource
Development Quarterly, 25(2), 155-180.
https://doi.org/10.1002/hrdq.21187
Sidhu, J. S., Feng, Y., Volberda, H. W. & Van Den Bosch,
F. A. J. (2021). In the shadow of social stereotypes:
gender diversity on corporate boards, board chair’s
gender and strategic change. Organization Studies,
42(11), 1677-1698.
https://doi.org/10.1177/01708406209445
Slomka-Golebiowska, A., De Masi, S. & Paci, A. (2023).
Board dynamics and board tasks empowered by
women on boards: evidence from Italy. Management
Research Review, 46(3), 390-412.
https://www.emerald.com/insight/content/doi/10.1108/M
RR-09-2021-0678/full/html
Snyder, H. (2019). Literature review as a research
methodology: an overview and guidelines. Journal of
Business Reserach, 104, 333-339.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2019.07.039
Stubbart, C. I. (1989). Managerial cognition: a missing link
in strategic management research. Journal of
Management Studies, 26(4), 325-347.
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-6486.1989.tb00732.x
Squires, B. & Elnahla, N. (2020). The roles played by
boards of directors: an integration of the agency and
stakeholder theories. Transnational Corporations
Review, 12(2), 126-139.
https://doi.org/10.1080/19186444.2020.1757340
Torraco, R. J. (2006). Writing integrative literature reviews:
guidelines and examples. Human Resource
Development Review, 4(3), 356-367.
https://doi.org/10.1177/1534484305278283
Vehka, M. & Vesa, H. (2023). Internal governance of
interest organizations: the role of boards of directors in
advocacy performance. Non-profit and Voluntary Sector
Quartely, 52(2), 474-492.
https://doi.org/10.1177/08997640221091529

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

Watson, C. & Ireland, A. (2021). Boards in action:
processes and practices of ‘strategizing’ in the
boardroom. Journal of Management and Governance
25, 933–966.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10997-020-09545-7
Wommack, W. W. (1979). The board’s most important
function. Harvard Business Review, 57(5).
https://hbr.org/1979/09/the-boards-most-importantfunction
Yarram, S. R. & Adapa, S. (2021). Board gender diversity
and corporate social responsibility: Is there a case for
critical mass?. Journal of Cleaner Production, 278,
123319.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.123319
Zahra, S. A. & Pearce II, J. A. (1989). Boards of directors
and corporate financial performance: a review and
integrative model. Journal of Management, 15(2), 291334.
https://doi.org/10.1177/014920638901500208
Zahra, S. A., & Pearce II, J. A. (1990). Determinants of
boards directors’ strategic involvement. European
Management Journal, 8(2), 164-173.
https://doi.org/10.1016/0263-2373(90)90082-H
Zenou, E., Allemand, I., Brullebaut, B., & Galia, F. (2020).
Board recruitment as a strategic answer: Do
companies' strategies for innovation influence the
selection of new board members?. Strategic Change,
Special Issue: Organizational Design Products, 29(1),
127-139.
https://doi.org/10.1002/jsc.2316
Zhu, Q, Hu, S. & Shen, W. (2020). Why do some insider
CEOs make more strategic changes than others? The
impact of prior board experience on new CEO
insiderness. Strategic Management Journal, 41(10), 1–
19.
https://doi.org/10.1002/smj.3183

 Correspondence

Tihona Bozhinovska
“Ss. Cyril and Methodius” University in Skopje,
Faculty of Economics – Skopje, Skopje
Bul. Goce Delchev, 9V, 1000 Skopje,
Republic of North Macedonia
E-mail: tihona@eccf.ukim.edu.mk

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

27

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 028-038
DOI: 10.5937/StraMan2300064K
Received: September 20, 2023
Revised: December 04, 2023
Accepted: January 03, 2024
Published online: January 29, 2024

Financial inclusion and inflation in
Southeast European countries
Meldina Kokorović Jukan
University of Tuzla, Faculty of Economics, Tuzla, Bosnia and Herzegovina
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4954-5437
Emira Kozarević
University of Tuzla, Faculty of Economics, Tuzla, Bosnia and Herzegovina
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5665-640X
Vesna Zukić
University of Tuzla, Faculty of Economics, Tuzla, Bosnia and Herzegovina
https://orcid.org/0009-0000-7815-8033
Abstract
Background: As a complex socio-economic concept, financial inclusion is related to the improvement of access
and use of formal financial products and services (such as bank deposits, loans, insurance, etc.) by all
participants in the financial system. More inclusive financial systems contribute to poverty reduction, decrease
in inequalities among different income groups leading to economic growth, and economies more resilient
towards macroeconomic shocks.
Purpose: This paper aims to assess the relationship between financial inclusion and inflation in Southeast
European countries, focusing on Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Montenegro,
North Macedonia, Romania, Slovenia, Serbia, and Turkey in the period from 2011 to 2021.
Study design/methodology/approach: The financial inclusion index was constructed using Principal
Component Analysis (PCA). The connection between the financial inclusion index and inflation was investigated
using panel regression modeling (OLS, fixed-effect, and random-effect models).
Findings/Conclusions: The research showed that countries with higher levels of financial inclusion are more
resilient to inflation. This finding is consistent with other research implying that policymakers and other
stakeholders within a financial system should contribute to promoting financial inclusion and building more
inclusive financial systems.
Limitations/future research: The main limitation of the research is related to data availability for
multidimensional index construction. Future research should be directed to providing a better understanding of
whether the relationship between financial inclusion and inflation is under the influence of other monetary policy
instruments, such as interest rates.
Keywords
financial inclusion, inflation, Southeast European (SEE) countries, Principal Component Analysis (PCA), panel
regression

Introduction
As one of the main focuses of policy makers of
developed and developing economies, financial
inclusion ensures that there are no obstacles to
access and use of basic financial products/services
that are most needed by poor individuals within the
financial system (Allen, Demirguc-Kunt, Klapper,
Soledad & Peria 2016; Ozili, 2018). Financial
inclusion contributes to the achievement of

sustainable goals (Sahay et al., 2015; DemirgucKunt, Klapper & Singer, 2017). There is evidence
that it contributes to the social inclusion of the poor
(Bold, Porteous & Rotman, 2012) and poverty
alleviation (Neaime & Gaysset, 2018).
Most
importantly,
financial
inclusion
contributes to economic growth, and therefore it
improves health and education and reduces income
inequalities. A functional financial system creates
equal opportunities by enabling excluded

Kokorović Jukan et al.

individuals to integrate into the economy,
contribute to economic growth, and protect
themselves from macro-economic shocks. Many
studies prove that financial inclusion and an
inclusive financial system play a major role in
promoting growth and alleviating poverty. For this
reason, financial inclusion has great potential to
integrate poor individuals into formal financial
flows and break the downward spiral of poverty
and income inequality. Of course, financial
systems in the real world are far from inclusive; the
financial infrastructure in developing countries is
underdeveloped, inefficient and does not provide
much choice.
Although the financial systems in the SouthEast European counties (SEE) have changed
significantly in the recent past, the share of
individuals who are financially excluded is still
high. Financially excluded individuals have a
limited access to financial products and services
(such as loans and savings) and are unable to
adequately participate in the growth and
development of their economies, and are thereby
deprived of the opportunity to effectively
contribute to economic growth and poverty
alleviation.
In contrast to most of the research that focuses
on
understanding
the
relationship
and
contributions of financial inclusion towards
economic growth and poverty alleviation, this
paper turns the attention to understanding the
relationship of financial inclusion and inflation
(inflation rates). In the new “normal” after the
COVID-19 pandemic, governments are put to the
new challenge of battling inflation resulting from
expansionary monetary policies in the aftermath of
the pandemic and the war between Russia and
Ukraine.
The main goal of this paper is to provide more
insight into the relationship between the level of
financial inclusion and inflation. The research
hypothesis is that countries with a higher level of
financial inclusion (higher level of inclusiveness of
financial systems) have a lower level of inflation.
The research covers the period from 2011 to 2021
and is focused on the countries of SEE including
Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria,
Croatia, Greece, Montenegro, North Macedonia,
Romania, Slovenia, Serbia, and Turkey.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows.
The second section provides previous research on
the relationship between financial inclusion,
economic growth, and inflation. The third section
provides an overview of the methodology used

Financial inclusion and inflation in Southeast European countries

while in the fourth part the research results are
presented and discussed. Concluding remarks,
policy implications and recommendation for future
research are given in the final section of the paper.

1. Theoretical background and
previous research on nexus between
financial inclusion and inflation
Academic research papers on financial inclusion
mostly focus on promoting growth, development,
and financial stability (Sarma & Pais, 2011; Cull,
Demirgüç-Kunt & Lyman, 2012; Ghosh, 2013,
Kim, Yu & Hassan, 2018). Also, it is worth
mentioning that some studies (Kpodar &
Andrianaivo, 2011; Ghosh, 2013; Fungáčová &
Weill, 2015; Gabor & Brooks, 2017; Ozili, 2019;
Vasile, Panait & Apostu, 2021; Apostu, Panait,
Vasile, Sharma & Vasile, 2023) focus on
government
practices,
financial
system
innovations in terms of introducing new financial
institutions (i.e., microfinance institutions and
credit unions), technological approaches (i.e.,
mobile accounts, FinTech) to promote financial
inclusion, and the impact of the COVID-19
pandemic on financial inclusion.
Claessens & Perotti (2007) identify financial
inclusion as a key driver of economic growth,
while Sethi (2018) finds that financial inclusion
can contribute to economic growth. Access to
financial products and services at low prices
improves the living standards of the poor.
Individuals with low incomes are granted lowbudget loans that are used to start their small
businesses, especially in rural areas. Business
activities stimulated in this way contribute to
production growth at the state level resulting in
higher macroeconomic growth, increasing the
living standards of individuals with low incomes.
Improving access to bank deposits and
insurance by the population that is financially
excluded leads to the accumulation of financial
sources in the financial market. Financial markets
are then able to fulfil one of their main functions of
efficient funds allocation into profitable long-term
investments. A sound financial infrastructure can
directly affect economic growth. Mehrotra &
Yetman (2014) prove that the access of individuals
to banking products and services brings benefits
that create inclusive growth. The absence of
adequate access to loans, both for individuals and
for small and medium-sized enterprises, leads to
negative consequences for the overall growth of
employment. Also, Bruhn and Love (2014) reveal
that financial access has a positive impact on
STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 028-038

29

30

Kokorović Jukan et al.

Financial inclusion and inflation in Southeast European countries

poverty and the income level of the poor. Park and
Mercado (2015) find that financial inclusion
contributes towards poverty alleviation and
reduction of income inequalities. Harley, Adegoke
and Adegbola, (2017) investigate the role of
financial inclusion towards achieving economic
growth and poverty alleviation in developing
countries using the panel data analysis. They prove
that the number of ATMs and bank branches are
the most important indicators of increasing the
level of financial inclusion. Gretta (2017) also
proves the impact of financial inclusion on
economic growth. Okoye, Adetiloye, Erin and
Modebe (2017) investigate the impact of financial
inclusion on economic growth and development in
Nigeria showing that financial inclusion has
impacted poverty reduction in Nigeria through the
delivery of rural credits.
While financial inclusion is complementary to
economic growth, there is mixed evidence on the
connection between financial inclusion and
inflation. As the theory suggests, one of
preconditions of economic growth is an
expansionary monetary policy which stimulates an
economy by boosting demand through monetary
and fiscal stimulus, but directly drives inflation. A
scarcity of literature on the nexus between
financial inclusion and monetary policy shows that
higher financial inclusion contributes to better
usability of central banks interest rate for
stabilization of consumer price levels (Mehrotra &
Yetman, 2014; Mehrotra & Nadhanael, 2016). In
contrast to previous conclusions, Evans (2016)
finds that in 16 African countries, the level of
financial inclusion contributes to the effectiveness
of monetary policy only in the short run, while the
long-run effectiveness is achieved through interest
rates management. Analyzing the correlation
between financial inclusion and monetary policy
on the sample of the South Asian Association for
Regional Cooperation (SAARC) countries in the
period from 2004 to 2013, Lenka and Bairwa
(2016) find a significant correlation between
financial inclusion and inflation, namely it is found
that an increase in financial inclusion
(accessibility) is associated with a decrease in
inflation and price stability.
Several empirical studies (Arshad et al. 2021;
Saraswati, Maski, Kaluge & Sakti, 2020; El
Bourainy, Salah & El Sherif, 2021) find that
increased financial inclusion contributes to
reduction of inflation, which improves the
effectiveness of monetary policy. Using the
Structural Vector Autoregressive (SVAR)

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 028-038

technique, Arshad et al. (2021) confirm the
existence of the inverse correlation in which a
monetary policy contributes to the increase in
financial inclusion. Using the generalized Method
of Moments (GMM) on the sample of 37
developing countries over the period 2009–2018,
El Bourainy et al. (2021) conclude that in
developing countries a financial inclusion increase
contributes to lower inflation rates. Similar
conclusion is drawn by Jungo, Madaleno and
Botelho, (2022), who test the effectiveness and
efficiency of monetary policy in controlling
inflation in respect to an increase in financial
inclusion. A comparative analysis shows that
financial inclusion increases the effectiveness of
monetary policy in Sub-Saharan Africa countries,
while in Latin America and the Caribbean
countries financial inclusion improves the
efficiency of monetary policy.

2. Methodology of empirical research
2.1. Data sources and variables

The research data for the study were obtained from
several different databases, namely the World
Bank Global Findex Survey database (WB-FAS),
the International Monetary Fund Financial Access
Survey database (IMF-FAS) and the World Bank World Development Indicators database (WBWDI). The research was focused on the countries
of SEE, including Albania, Bosnia and
Herzegovina,
Bulgaria,
Croatia,
Greece,
Montenegro, North Macedonia, Romania,
Slovenia, Serbia, and Turkey and covers the tenyear period from 2011 to 2021.
The description of the variables is presented in
Table 1. Inflation was measured by the annual
change in consumer prices, while financial
inclusion was measured by eight individual
variables, through financial inclusion dimensions
and the financial inclusion index (FII). The initial
set of individual variables was also used for FII
construction based on the literature review (Sarma
2008; Sarma 2012; Amidzic, Massara & Mialou,
2014; Sarma 2016; Cámara & Tuesta (2018); Goel
& Sharma (2017); Park & Mercado (2018);
Nguyen, (2021); Borhan, Muda & Mohamad,
2021; Gupte, Venkataramani and Gupta (2012),
and data availability for SEE countries.

Kokorović Jukan et al.

Financial inclusion and inflation in Southeast European countries

Table 1 Data and variables description
Variable label

Variable

Description

Data source

z_inf
FII
racun

Inflation
Financial inclusion index - FII
Account at financial institution

Inflation rate, consumer prices (annual %)

WB-WDI

Percentage of respondents having a bank account at financial
institutions (% +15 age)

WB-GFS

n_racun
posudba

Number of deposit accounts at commercial banks per 1,000 adults
Percentage of respondents who borrowed money from financial
institutions (% +15 age)
Percentage of respondents who used debit or credit cards (% +15 age)
Percentage of respondents who saved money at financial institution (%
+15 age)

IMF-FAS
WB-GFS

kor_deb
stednja

Deposit accounts
Borrowing from financial
institution
Use of debit or credit card
Savings at financial institution

ne_depo
filijala

Outstanding loans
Number of branches

Outstanding loans from commercial banks % GDP
Number of commercial bank branches per 100,000 adults

IMF-FAS
IMF-FAS

bankomat

Number of ATMs

Number of ATMs per 100,000 adults

2.2. Methods used
2.2.1. Construction of financial inclusion index

For constructing a multidimensional FII for SEE
countries, the exploratory two-stage PCA was used
as suggested by Amidzic et al. (2014), Cámara and
Tuesta (2018), Park and Mercado, (2018), Nguyen
(2021), and Borhan et al. (2021). As proposed by
Sarma (2008) and used by Amidzic et al. (2014),
Nguyen (2021) and others, the variables used for
the index construction were normalized using the
min-max normalization method. Normalization
was used to scale data to fall in the range between
0 and 1.
The first-stage PCA was used for identifying
and grouping the variables in relevant dimensions.
Then, the weights of the indicators representing
dimensions were extracted and estimated. The
estimation of factors loading was obtained using
the rotation of the axes using the varimax
technique. Based on the results of the first-stage
PCA, two dimensions (factors) were extracted.
In the second-stage PCA, the weights for each
dimension were calculated using unrotated matrix
and by using the aforementioned dimensions as
explanatory variables, the FII was created.
To further verify adequate correlations among
the selected indicators of financial inclusion, the
Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin (KMO) measure of sampling
adequacy was used before conducting Factor
Analysis.

IMF-FAS
Source: the authors

models using pooled OLS, fixed and random
effects estimators to assess which regression model
fits the data. The estimators were tested using the
Hausman test and the Breusch–Pagan test of model
adequacy.
(1) Regression model at the level of individual
variables of financial inclusion: For the purposes of
determining the connection between inflation rate
and financial inclusion, the following panel
regression model was formulated at the level of
individual variables of financial inclusion:
Z_inf = αit + β1racunit + β2n_racunit + β3posudbait
+ β4kor_debit + β5stednjait + β6ne_depoit +
β7filijalait + β8bankomatit + uit

𝑥 𝑎
(1)

where:
z_inf

Inflation

racun

Having an
account

n_racun

Holding
deposit
accounts
Lending

posudba
kor_deb
stednja

Using a
debit or
credit card
Savings

ne_depo

Outstandin
g deposits

filijala

Branches
of
commerci
al banks

2.2.2. Model specification

For the purpose of evaluating the relationship
between financial inclusion and inflation, three
panel models were used. We tested three regression

WB-GFS
WB-GFS

Inflation rate, consumer prices (annual
%)
Percentage of respondents who have an
account at a financial institution (% aged
15+)
Number of deposit accounts with
commercial banks per 1,000 adults
Percentage of respondents who
borrowed money from a financial
institution (% age 15+)
Percentage of respondents using a debit
or credit card (% age 15+)
Percentage of respondents who save at
a financial institution (% age 15+)
Percentage of respondents who have
unpaid deposits at a financial institution
(% of GDP)
Number of commercial bank branches
per 100,000 adults

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 028-038

31

32

Kokorović Jukan et al.

Financial inclusion and inflation in Southeast European countries

bankomat

ATMs

Number of ATMs per 100,000 adults

i

Country

t

Time/
years

Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Montenegro,
North Macedonia, Romania, Slovenia,
Serbia, and Turkey
2011, 2014, 2017, and 2021

(2) Regression model at the level of factors
obtained through the construction of the FII: For
the purposes of determining the connection
between economic growth and financial inclusion,
the following panel regression model was
formulated at the level of factors obtained through
the construction of the FII:

t

Time/ years

2011, 2014, 2017, and 2021

(3) Regression model at the level of the FII: For
the purposes of determining the connection
between economic growth and financial inclusion,
the following panel regression model was
formulated at the level of the FII:
y = α it + β 1 s_FII it + u it

(3)

where:
s_FII

Index
of
financial
inclusion

Index of financial inclusion

y = α it + β 1 s_FII_f1 it + β 2 s_FII_f2 it + u it
(2)

i

Country

Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Bulgaria,
Croatia,
Greece,
Montenegro, North Macedonia,
Romania, Slovenia, Serbia, and
Turkey

where:

t

Time/ years

2011, 2014, 2017, and 2021

s_FII_f1

Availability
and Use

s_FII_f2

Access

i

Country

3. Results and discussion
Factor 1 Financial inclusion
Factor 2 Financial inclusion
Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Bulgaria,
Croatia,
Greece,
Montenegro, North Macedonia,
Romania, Slovenia, Serbia, and
Turkey

3.1. Descriptive statistics

Table 2 shows the overall descriptive statistics on
inflation rate and individual indicators of financial
inclusion for all the observed SEE countries.

Table 2 Descriptive statistics of indicators of financial inclusion and for observed SEE countries aggregated
Variables
Obs
Mean
Std. Dev.
Min
Max
Inflation
48
3.050666
3.666394
-1.418184
19.59649
Account at financial institution
47
64.11277
22.5944
10.57
99.05
Deposit accounts
33
1845.737
965.4469
596.33
3926.25
Borrowing from financial institution
47
20.5666
10.39704
4.55
42.84
Use of debit or credit card
35
39.454
20.42749
5.81
89.83
Savings at financial institution
47
14.86617
9.257208
3.17
39.85
Outstanding loans
48
56.57188
14.68935
31.02
97.6
Number of branches
44
28.87545
11.17838
11.63
60.4
Number of ATMs
44
66.50477
28.67434
25.68
140.7
Source: WB-WDI, IMF-FAS and WB-GFS databases, the authors’ calculation

Data show that the average inflation rate for all
SEE countries in the analyzed period was 3% with
standard deviation of 3.6%. On average, 64% of
adults in the SEE countries observed had an open
account at financial institutions, over 39% of them
used debit cards. Just above 20% of the adults
borrowed and 14% saved money. The average
number of deposit accounts for the SEE countries
analyzed per 1,000 adults was 1,845 accounts,
meaning that on average one person had more than
one account opened at financial institutions. There
were approximately 29 bank branches and 66
ATMs per 100,000 inhabitants in these SEE
countries.
Given that the descriptive statistics on inflation
rate presented in the previous table represent
STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 028-038

consolidated data for observed years for SEE
countries, Table 3 shows more in-depth data on the
level of interest rate within the SEE region,
disaggregated by year, while Table 4 presents
descriptive statistics on inflation rates,
disaggregated by the SEE countries observed.

Kokorović Jukan et al.

Financial inclusion and inflation in Southeast European countries

Table 3 Descriptive statistics of inflation in observed SEE countries, disaggregated per year
Indicators per year
Obs
Mean
Std. Dev
Min
Max
2011
12
4.73463
2.593056
1.802852
11.1374
2014
12
.7853703
2.771865
-1.418184
8.854573
2017
12
2.453879
2.811806
.8101333
11.14431
2021
12
4.228785
4.952595
1.223825
19.59649
Source: WB-GFS databases, the authors' calculation

As the table shows, there was a decrease in the
average inflation rate for these SEE countries,
which was 4.73% in 2011, to 0.79% in 2014, and
2.45% in 2017. As the inflation rates increased

worldwide due to the COVID-19 and Russia Ukraine war, in 2021 the inflation rate was
increased in the SEE region and it was at the level
of 4.23%.

Table 4 Descriptive statistics of inflation disaggregated by SEE country
Indicator per country
Obs
Mean
Std. Dev.
Min
Max
Albania
4
2.289265
.7859318
1.625865
3.429123
Bosnia and Herzegovina
4
1.391457
1.925412
-.8971941
3.67125
Bulgaria
4
2.040265
2.469372
-1.418184
4.219903
Croatia
4
1.435353
1.261169
-.2151962
2.554507
Greece
4
1.090668
1.897954
-1.312261
3.329853
Montenegro
4
1.882667
1.798895
-.7105141
3.450143
North Macedonia
4
2.051354
1.893749
-.281705
3.904754
Romania
4
3.312228
2.455763
1.06831
5.789253
Serbia
4
5.109003
4.101309
2.082448
11.1374
Slovenia
4
1.337092
.7866042
.1993438
1.917065
Turkey
4
11.51681
5.714276
6.47188
19.59649
Source: WB-WDI, IMF-FAS and WB-GFS databases, the authors’ calculation

The access dimension was represented by three
indicators: percentage of individuals with an
opened account at financial institutions, number of
deposit accounts per 1,000 inhabitants, and
outstanding loans, while the other dimension was
represented by the set of two indicators related to
availability (the number of branches and the
number of ATMs per 100,000 inhabitants) and
usage (usage of debit account, borrowing, and
saving).

3.2. Financial inclusion index for SEE

The results of the first-stage PCA used for FII
construction are presented in Table 5. Dimensions
extracted for the researched SEE countries,
“access” and “usage and availability”, are
consistent with the dimensions extracted by
Borhan et al., (2021).

Table 5 First-stage factor analysis – factor correlation (varimax rotation)
Variable
Factor 1 loadings
(availability and usage)
Account at financial institution
0.5228
Deposit accounts
Borrowing from financial institution
0.7807
Use of debit or credit card
0.7516
Savings at financial institution
0.7991
Outstanding loans
Number of branches
0.3741
Number of ATMs
0.9621

The “Access” dimension was represented by
three indicators: percentage of individuals with an
opened account at financial institutions, number of
deposit accounts per 1,000 inhabitants, and
outstanding loans, while the “Usage and
availability” dimension was represented by the set
of two indicators related to availability (the number
of branches and the number of ATMs per 100,000
inhabitants) and usage (usage of debit account,
borrowing, and saving).

Factor 2 loadings (access)
0.4349
0.5375
0.4130
0.3448
0.8340

Uniqueness
0.5376
0.6998
0.3485
0.2645
0.2426
0.2792
0.8210
0.0734
Source: the authors’ calculation

The second-stage PCA results and obtained
loading factors are showed in Table 6.

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 028-038

33

34

Kokorović Jukan et al.

Financial inclusion and inflation in Southeast European countries

Table 6 Second-stage factor analysis – factor correlation

Variable label
s_FII_f1
s_FII_f2

Factor label
Usage and availability
Access

Factor loadings
0.5249
0.5249

Uniqueness
0.7245
0.7245
Source: the authors’ calculation

The KMO statistics for the first-stage PCA was
0.573, which was more than the minimum required
threshold (0.50). This confirms that the indicators
were correlated and suitable for structure detection
using factor analysis.

Table 7 presents the computed FII values for
SEE developing economies for the years 20112021. As it can be observed from Table 7, Slovenia
had the highest level of financial inclusion with the
average value of 0.903 and Romania’s level was
the lowest, with the value of 0.235.

Table 7 Descriptive statistics of FII disaggregated by SEE countries, 2011-2021
SEE country
2011
2014
2017
2021
Slovenia
0.800
0.883
0.928
1.000
Greece
0.855
0.734
0.682
0.991
Croatia
0.620
0.841
0.889
0.859
Bulgaria
0.592
0.704
0.761
0.785
Turkey
0.214
0.471
0.689
0.607
Montenegro
0.374
0.445
0.515
0.598
Serbia
0.255
0.361
0.356
0.566
North Macedonia
0.179
0.366
0.366
0.409
Bosnia and Herzegovina
0.192
0.233
0.264
0.457
Albania
0.288
0.319
0.221
0.258
Romania
0.019
0.251
0.239
0.431

As it can be observed from the previous table,
there is an evident increase in the level of financial
inclusion among all the SEE countries observed.
While Slovenia, Greece and Croatia had the
highest level of financial inclusion with the FII of
0.903, 0.815, and 0.802 respectively, Bosnia and

Avg.
0.903
0.815
0.802
0.711
0.495
0.483
0.385
0.330
0.287
0.272
0.235

Herzegovina, Albania and Romania had the lowest
level of financial inclusion.
3.3. Results of panel regressions

Table 8 shows the results of panel regression
model 1.

Table 8 Results of panel regression - association of financial inclusion variables with inflation
Random-effect
OLS model
Fixed-effect model
Variables
model
(a)
(b)
(c)
racun
.0063009
.1081472
.0063009
(0.850)
(0.106)
(0.848)
n_racun
.0013549
.0020174
.0013549
(0.067)+
(0.399)
(0.047)**
posudba
.0787971
-.470063
.0787971
(0.535)
(0.012)**
(0.525)
kor_deb
stednja
ne_depo
filijala
bankomat
F statistic/
Wald chi2( s)
R-squared
Adj. R-squared
sigma-e
Prob>chi2

-.0655963
(0.293)
.1200331
(0.388)
-.1061255
(0.156)
-.1362461
(0.061)*
.0296787
(0.563)
F(8, 14) = 2.21
(0.0928)
0.5582
0.3057

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 028-038

Std. dev.
Rank
0.084
1
0.138
2
0.123
3
0.086
4
0.208
5
0.096
6
0.131
7
0.103
8
0.117
9
0.042
10
0.169
11
Source: the authors’ calculation

.0009003
(0.975)
.1736287
(0.054)*
.0730674
(0.159)
-.0639219
(0.567)
-.0903165
(0.222)
F(8,6) = 6.58
(0.0169)
0.0548

-.0655963
(0.275)
.1200331
(0.373)
-.1061255
(0.134)
-.1362461
(0.041)**
.0296787
(0.554)
Wald chi2(8) = 17.69
(0.0237)
0.5582

.78553205

.78553205

Hausman's test
Sigmamore
Differences (b) – (c)
.1018463
.0006625
-.5488602
.0664966
.0535956
.1791929
.0723242
-.1199953

0.0994
Note: confidence level: *** p<0.001 ** p<0.05, * p<0.01
Source: the authors’ calculation

Kokorović Jukan et al.

The Hausman test showed that the random
effects model was more appropriate for testing the
model's contribution to explaining the variance of
the dependent variable. The F statistic showed that
the random effects model was statistically
significant (p<0.05) and that 0.5582% of the
variance of the change in the dependent variable
was explained in the model.
The model showed that there was a positive
correlation between holding deposit accounts and
the inflation rate, meaning that the higher level of

Financial inclusion and inflation in Southeast European countries

financial inclusion measured by the percentage of
adults holding accounts was related to the increase
in inflation rates. In contrast, the research showed
a negative correlation between the number of
branches and inflation, meaning that the higher
number of bank branches was related to a decrease
in inflation rates.
Table 9 shows the results of regression model 2
- the relation between financial inclusion factors
and inflation.

Table 9 Results of panel regression - association of financial inclusion factors with inflation
Variables
s_FII_f1
s_FII_f2
F statistic/
Wald chi2( s)
R-squared
Adj. R-squared
sigma-e
Prob>chi2

OLS model
(a)
-1.461839
(0.513)
-.7166514
(0.798)
F(2, 45) = 0.38
(0.6891)
0.0164
-0.0273

Fixed-effect model
(b)

Random-effect model
(c)

2.240042
(0.645)
-.9832857
(0.878)
F(2,34) = 0.11
(0.8920)
0.0103

-.1755683
(0.953)
-.6444125
(0.867)
Wald chi2(2) = 0.05
(0.9753)
0.0113

2.7740969

2.7740969

Hausman's test
Sigmamore
Differences (b) – (c)
2.415611
-.3388731

0.7413
Note: confidence level: *** p<0.001 ** p<0.05, * p<0.01
Source: the authors’ calculation

The Hausman test showed that the random
effects model was more appropriate (Prob>chi2
=0.7413<0.05) for testing the contribution of the
model to explaining the variance of the dependent
variable. However, the random effects model did
not explain a statistically significant part of the
variance of the dependent variable, so it can be
concluded that the factors of financial inclusion did
not explain changes in inflation. Furthermore, it

must be noted that the practical significance of the
obtained results proves that a higher level of
financial inclusion factors (Usage and availability
and Access) contributed to a lower level of interest
rates.
Table 10 shows the results of the regression
model 3 - the association of the financial inclusion
index with inflation.

Table 10 Results of panel regression - association of financial inclusion index with inflation
Variables
s_FII
F statistic/
Wald chi2( s)
R-squared
Adj. R-squared
sigma-e
Prob>chi2

OLS model
(a)

Fixed-effect model
(b)

Random-effect model
(c)

-1.649774
(0.419)
F(1, 46) = 0.66
(0.4193)
0.0142
-0.0072

.2679605
(0.930)
F(1,35) = 0.01
(0.9298)
0.0142

-.7254393
(0.757)
Wald chi2(1) = 0.10
(0.7568)
0.0142

2.7430785

2.7430785

The Hausman test showed that the random
effects model was more appropriate (Prob>chi2
=0.5947<0.05) for testing the contribution of the
model to explaining the variance of the dependent
variable. However, the random effects model did
not explain a statistically significant part of the
variance of the dependent variable, so it can be

Hausman's test
Sigmamore
Differences (b) – (c)
.9933998

0.5947
Note: confidence level: *** p<0.001 ** p<0.05, * p<0.01
Source: the authors’ calculation

concluded that the FII did not explain changes in
inflation. The practical significance of the obtained
results shows negative association between the FII
and inflation, meaning that a higher level of
financial inclusion contributed to a lower level of
inflation.

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 028-038

35

36

Kokorović Jukan et al.

Financial inclusion and inflation in Southeast European countries

Conclusions
This paper contributes to the body of knowledge on
the nexus between financial inclusion and inflation
rate in SEE countries. Using panel regression
models, the research aimed to establish the
connection between the level of financial inclusion
and inflation rate measured by the consumer prices
index.
Using PCA, the FII was constructed for all the
observed SEE countries. Based on the previous
research and taking into account the availability of
data, eight indicators were identified to be included
in FII construction. The FII was created according
to the methodology used by Sarma (2008, 2010,
2012), Amidzic et al. (2014), and Borhan et al.
(2021).
Descriptive statistical analysis showed that in
the observed period from 2011 to 2021, there was
an increase in the inflation rates in all the observed
SEE countries. The measures of financial inclusion
included: (1) measures at the level of individual
variables of financial inclusion, (2) measures at the
level of factors obtained through the FII, and (3)
measure at the level of the FII. For the evaluation
of the nexus between financial inclusion and
inflation, three panel regression models were
constructed for each level of financial inclusion
measurement.
Overall, all three models proved that increased
financial inclusion, measured by individual
indicators, factors or index, was contributing to
lower inflation rates. The first regression model
showed that there was a positive correlation
between having deposit accounts and the inflation
rate, and a negative correlation between the
number of branches and inflation. The analysis of
the correlation between financial inclusion factors
and inflation led to the conclusion that higher
availably and usage of financial services/products
as well as access are associated with lower level of
inflation. These findings are consistent with El
Bourainy et al. (2021) research.
While the main limitation of the research is
related to data availability for multidimensional
index construction, it can be concluded that
financial inclusion in SEE countries is positively
related to a lower level of inflation. Further
research should be direct to provide better
understanding of whether this relationship is under
the influence of other monetary policy instruments,
such as interest rates. Based on the obtained results,
it can be recommended that governments in SEE
countries should consider incorporating financial

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 028-038

inclusion as a tool for interest rate reduction in their
policy agendas.

References
Allen, F., Demirguc-Kunt, A., Klapper L., Soledad M. &
Peria M. (2016). The foundations of financial inclusion:
understanding ownership and use of formal accounts.
Journal of Financial Intermediation, 27, 1–30.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jfi.2015.12.003
Amidzic, G., Massara, A. & Mialou, A. (2014). Assessing
countries' financial inclusion standing — a new
composite index. IMF Working Paper, WP/14/36.
https://doi.org/10.5089/9781475569681.001
Apostu, S. A., Panait, M., Vasile, V., Sharma, G. D., &
Vasile, R. (2023). FinTechs and financial inclusion—
Balkan experience: digital perspectives on financial
markets. The Electronic Journal of Information Systems
in Developing Countries, 89(2), e12257.
https://doi.org/10.1002/isd2.12257
Arshad, M.U., Ahmed, Z., Ramzan, A, Shabbir, M.N.,
Bashir, Z. & Khan. F.N. (2021) Financial inclusion and
monetary policy effectiveness: a sustainable
development approach of developed and underdeveloped countries. PLoS ONE, 16(12): e0261337.
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0261337
Bold, C., Porteous, D. & Rotman, S. (2012). Social cash
transfers and financial inclusion: evidence from four
countries. CGAP focus note, No. 77. Washington, D.C.:
World Bank Group. Retrieved June 20, 2023, from
http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/5383514683
30277429/Social-cash-transfers-and-financial-inclusionevidence-from-four-countries
Borhan, N.A., Muda, R. & Mohamad, S. (2021). Measuring
financial inclusion in developing economies: a
multidimensional index. Asia-Pacific Management
Accounting Journal, 16(3). Retrieved June 20, 2023,
from https://ir.uitm.edu.my/id/eprint/56532/1/56532.pdf
Bruhn, M. & Love, I. (2014). The real impact of improved
access to finance: evidence from Mexico. The Journal
of Finance, 69, 1347-1376.
https://doi.org/10.1111/jofi.12091
Cámara, N. & Tuesta, D. (2018). Measuring financial
inclusion: a multidimensional index. In: Bank for
International Settlements (ed.), The role of data in
supporting financial inclusion policy, vol. 47. Retrieved
June 20, 2023, from
https://EconPapers.repec.org/RePEc:bis:bisifc:47-18
Claessens, S. & Perotti, E. (2007). Finance and inequality:
channels and evidence. Journal of Comparative
Economics, 35(4), 748–773.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jce.2007.07.002
Cull, R., Demirgüç-Kunt, A. & Lyman, T. (2012). Financial
inclusion and stability: what does research show?
Consultative Group to Assist the Poor, 71305, 1-3.
Retrieved June 24, 2023, from
https://www.cgap.org/sites/default/files/CGAP-BriefFinancial-Inclusion-and-Stability-What-Does-ResearchShow-May-2012.pdf
Demirguc-Kunt, A., Klapper, L. & Singer, D. (2017).
Financial inclusion and inclusive growth: a review of
recent empirical evidence. Policy Research Working
Paper; No. 8040. World Bank, Washington, DC.
Retrieved June 24, 2023, from
http://hdl.handle.net/10986/26479

Kokorović Jukan et al.

Financial inclusion and inflation in Southeast European countries

Goel, S. & Sharma, R. (2017). Developing a financial
inclusion index for India. Procedia Computer Science,
122, 949-956.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2017.11.459

Neaime, S. & Gaysset, I. (2018). Financial inclusion and
stability in MENA: Evidence from poverty and inequality.
Finance Research Letters, 24, 230-237.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.frl.2017.09.007

El Bourainy, M., Salah, A. & El Sherif, M. (2021). Assessing
the impact of financial inclusion on inflation rate in
developing countries. Open Journal of Social Sciences,
9, 397-424.
https://doi.org/10.4236/jss.2021.91030

Nguyen, T.T.H. (2021). Measuring financial inclusion: a
composite FI index for the developing countries, Journal
of Economics and Development, 23(1), 7-99.
https://doi.org/10.1108/JED-03-2020-0027

Evans, O. (2016). The effectiveness of monetary policy in
Africa: modeling the impact of financial inclusion.
According to CGAP 20(3), 327–337. Retrieved May 12,
2023, from
https://ier.ut.ac.ir/article_58961_7b8e
37e5e5fb73a949f9048b0a04650c.pdf
Fungáčová, Z. & Weill, L. (2015). Understanding financial
inclusion in China. China Economic Review, 34, 196206.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chieco.2014.12.004
Gabor, D. & Brooks, S. (2017). The digital revolution in
financial inclusion: international development in the
fintech era. New Political Economy, 22(4), 423-436.
https://doi.org/10.1080/13563467.2017.1259298
Ghosh, J. (2013). Microfinance and the challenge of
financial inclusion for development. Cambridge Journal
of Economics, 37(6), 1203-1219.
https://doi.org/10.1093/cje/bet042
Gretta, S. (2017). Financial inclusion and growth. The
Business and Management Review,(8)4, 434-441.
https://doi.org/10.19044/esj.2022.v18n22p225
Gupte, R., Venkataramani, B. & Gupta, D. (2012).
Computation of financial inclusion index for India,
Procedia-Social and Behavioral Sciences, 37: 133-149.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2012.03.281
Harley, TW., Adegoke, AJ. & Adegbola, D. (2017). Role of
financial inclusion in economic growth and poverty
reduction. Internal Journal of Research in Economics
and Social Sciences (IJRESS), 265-271.
Jungo, J., Madaleno, M. & Botelho, A. (2022). The
relationship between financial inclusion and monetary
policy: a comparative study of countries’ in SubSaharan Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean.
Journal of African Business, 23(3), 794-815.
https://doi.org/10.1080/15228916.2021.1930810
Kim, DW., Yu, JS. & Hassan, MK. (2018). Financial
inclusion and economic growth in OIC countries.
Research in International Business and Finance, 43, 114.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ribaf.2017.07.178
Kpodar, K. & Andrianaivo, M. (2011). ICT, financial
inclusion, and growth evidence from African countries
(No. 11-73). International Monetary Fund Working
Paper, WP/11/73.
https://doi.org/10.5089/9781455227068.001
Lenka, SK. & Bairwa, A. (2016). Does financial inclusion
affect monetary policy in SAARC countries? Cogent
Economics and Finance, 4, Article ID: 1127011.
https://doi.org/10.1080/23322039.2015.1127011
Mehrotra, AN. & Yetman, J. (2014). Financial inclusion and
optimal monetary policy. Bank of International
Settlements Working Papers, No. 476, 1-26.
Mehrotra, A. & Nadhanael, G. (2016). Financial inclusion
and monetary policy in emerging Asia, in Financial
inclusion in Asia. Springer. p. 93–127.
https://doi.org/10.1057/978-1-137-58337-6_4

Okoye, LU, Adetiloye, KA, Erin, O., & Modebe, NJ. (2017).
Financial inclusion as a strategy for enhanced
economic growth and development. Journal of Internet
Banking and Commerce, 1-12.
Ozili, PK. (2018). Impact of digital finance on financial
inclusion and stability. Borsa Istanbul Review, 18(4),
329-340.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bir.2017.12.003
Ozili, PK. (2019). Blockchain finance: questions regulators
ask. Disruptive innovation in business and Finance in
the digital world. International Finance Review, Vol. 20.
Emerald Publishing Limited, 123-129.
https://doi.org/10.1108/S1569-3767201920
Park, CY. & Mercado, R. (2015). Financial inclusion,
poverty, and income inequality in developing Asia.
Asian Development Bank Economics Working Paper
Series, No. 426, 1-18.
https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2558936
Park, C. Y. & Mercado, R. V. (2018). Financial inclusion:
new measurement and cross-country impact
assessment, ADB Economics Working Paper Series,
No. 539, Asian Development Bank (ADB),
https://doi.org/10.22617/WPS189270-2
Sahay, R., Cihak, M., N'Diaye, P.M., Barajas, A., Mitra, S.,
Kyobe, A.J., Mooi, Y.N. & Yousefi, R. (2015). Financial
inclusion: Can it meet multiple macroeconomic goals?
IMF Staff Discussion Notes, No. 15/17, 1-33.
Washington, DC: International Monetary Fund
https://doi.org/10.5089/9781513585154.006
Saraswati, B. D., Maski, G., Kaluge, D. & Sakti, R. K.
(2020). The effect of financial inclusion and financial
technology on effectiveness of the Indonesian monetary
policy. Business: Theory and Practice, 21(1), 230-243.
https://doi.org/10.3846/btp.2020.10396
Sarma, M. (2008). Index of financial inclusion. Indian
Council for Research on International Economic
Relations, Working Paper No. 21. Retrieved January
10, 2023, from
https://EconPapers.repec.org/RePEc:ind:icrier:215
Sarma M. (2010). Index of financial inclusion. CITD
Discussion Paper 10-05. Retrieved January 10, 2023,
from
https://www.jnu.ac.in/sites/default/files/citd/DP05_2010.
pdf
Sarma, M. & Pais, J. (2011). Financial inclusion and
development. Journal of International Development,
23(5), 613-628.
https://doi.org/10.1002/jid.1698
Sarma, M. (2012). Index of financial inclusion – a measure
of financial sector inclusiveness. Working Paper No.
07/2012, Berlin Working Papers on Money, Finance,
Trade and Development. Competence Center “Money,
Finance, Trade and Development.
Sarma, M. (2016). Measuring financial inclusion using
multidimensional data. World Economics, 17(1), 15-40.
Sethi, D. (2018). Financial inclusion and economic growth
linkage: some cross country evidence, Journal of
Financial Economic Policy. 10(3), 369-385.
https://doi.org/10.1108/JFEP-11-2016-0073

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 028-038

37

38

Kokorović Jukan et al.

Financial inclusion and inflation in Southeast European countries

Vasile, V., Panait, M. & Apostu, S. A. (2021). Financial
inclusion paradigm shift in the postpandemic period.
digital-divide and gender gap. International Journal of
Environmental Research and Public Health, 18(20),
10938.
https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph182010938
 Correspondence

Meldina Kokorović Jukan
University of Tuzla, Faculty of Economics,
Urfeta Vejzagića 8, 75000 Tuzla, Bosnia and Herzegovina
E-mail: meldina.kokorovic@untz.ba

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 028-038

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 039-060
DOI: 10.5937/StraMan2400001A
Received: September 28, 2023
Revised: December 04, 2023
January 08, 2024
Accepted: January 24, 2024
Published online: February 07, 2024

Effects of compulsive buying on debt
avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand
addiction serve as a socially responsible
mediator?
Adi Alić
University of Sarajevo, School of Economics and Business, Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9623-6872
Ahmed Kadrić
University of Sarajevo, School of Economics and Business, Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina
https://orcid.org/0009-0003-7711-8621
Abstract
Background: Despite its controversial features, compulsive buying is gaining increasing attention in recent
scientific marketing literature. A particular emphasis is focused on the overlap between compulsive purchasing
and addiction to the brand, as well as an analysis of the combined effects of these two forms of addictive
consuming on consumers.
Purpose: This study aims to investigate the connection between brand addiction and compulsive buying, as
well as the individual and combined effects of these constructs on self-esteem and debt avoidance. Testing
differences between consumers of different genders was also carried out.
Study design/methodology/approach: Data were gathered using a questionnaire in the form of a selfassessment that included demographic questions as well as questions about compulsive buying, brand
addiction, avoiding debt, and self-esteem. Upon gathering online data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, partial least
squares analysis was performed to analyze the data using structural equation modeling.
Findings/conclusions: The study’s findings show that brand addiction and compulsive buying are positively
associated. Brand addiction serves as a beneficial mediator between compulsive buying and the goals of debt
avoidance and self-esteem, acting as a counterbalance to the detrimental effects of compulsive buying. The
study’s findings indicate that there are no appreciable differences in the aforementioned correlations between
men and women. This study offers empirical proof that compulsive buying and brand addiction are separate but
related behaviors. These findings improved the conceptual implications of these two crucial ideas and provided
brand managers and marketers with a useful tool for strategic brand management and strategic marketing
management in general.
Limitations/future research: Future research can develop conceptual models that are more appropriate,
containing characteristics that predict addictive behavior, as well as models for marketing strategies that are
sensitive to addictive consumption.
Keywords
compulsive buying, brand addiction, debt avoidance, self-esteem, gender

Introduction
Exposed to daily stressful situations and constant
mental and physical tension, people often find a
way out by buying various commodities. Although
compulsive purchases can create a feeling of

satisfaction, happiness and good mood, usually
these are short-term and actually camouflaged
feelings. On the other hand, the long-term
consequences of this behavior can be very negative
and lead the individual into an even greater abyss,
both in psychological and real aspects of life, thus

40

Alić & Kadrić

Effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand addiction serve as a socially responsible mediator?

creating a domino effect. Compulsive buying, in
this sense, can be seen as a form of addiction and
represents a purchase that exceeds the needs and
available means of the individual. It represents an
ethical issue, as it has negative consequences for
customers, their families and creditors.
Compulsive buying disorder was first described
by the Swiss psychiatrist Eugen Bleuler in 1915,
describing it with the word oniomania (from the
Greek words: onios (= “for sale”), and mania (=
“madness”)). Compulsive buying occurs as a
consumer’s reaction to an uncontrollable desire or
urge to feel the pleasure of buying a product. Given
that it is often repeated, it takes on negative
consequences, both for the individual and for
society as a whole (O’Guinn & Faber, 1989), since
compulsive buyers buy more often and spend
more, usually on unnecessary things (KukarKinney, Ridgway, & Monroe, 2012). Both
immediate and long-term effects can result from
compulsive buying (O’Guinn & Faber, 1989;
McElroy, Satlin, Pope, Keck, & Hudson, 1991;
Faber & O’Guinn 1992; Dittmar, 2005). The act of
buying is accompanied by contentment and
happiness, relief from stress, a short-term feeling
of satisfaction, strengthening of self-confidence
and escape from the feeling of loneliness. The
long-term consequences are negative, and they are
mainly: growth in indebtedness, subjective feeling
of loss of control, and uncertainty. The resulting
debts create material and psychological problems.
After the purchase, a person may become aware of
the consequences of his own behavior and then
remorse, euphoria, guilt, anxiety, depression, selfcriticism, shame and despair appear. Compulsive
shoppers try to hide and forget everything they
have bought and try to hide their behavior from
others (Hassay & Smith, 1996; Ridgway, KukarKinney, & Monroe, 2008; Kukar-Kinney et al.,
2012).
Previous studies have demonstrated that
compulsive shoppers are more cognizant of
pricing, are more sensitive to product brands and
prestige products, and are more price sensitive
(Faber & O’Guinn, 1992). Compulsive buyers buy
without planning and are impulsive in their
purchases (Shoham & Brenčič, 2003; Billieux, Van
Der Linden, & Rochat, 2008). Compulsive buying
frequently coexists with other addictive behaviors
like alcoholism, excessive internet use, gambling
disorders, and substance abuse conditions (Faber,
Christenson, de Zwaan, & Mitchell, 1995; Mueller,
Mueller, Silbermann, Reinecker, Bleich, et al.,
2008; Mueller, Mitchell, Peterson, Faber, Steffen,

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 039-060

et al., 2011; Kesebir, İşitmez, & Gündoğar, 2012;
Granero, Fernández-Aranda, Steward, MestreBach, Baño, et al., 2016; Weinstein, Maraz,
Griffiths, Lejoyeux, & Demetrovics, 2016),
creating in that way a phenomenon of comorbidity.
Mrad & Cui (2020) point out a gap in the research
and ambiguous findings about how compulsive
purchasing is associated with consumers’
connection with brands, despite early research
suggesting that brand addiction has detrimental
effects comparable to those of other types of
various pathological (dysfunctional) forms of
addiction (Fournier & Alvarez, 2013). In this
sense, the cited authors preliminarily introduce and
test a model that looks at the effects of associated
addictions on a person’s happiness, ability to avoid
debt, and self-esteem. However, the authors do not
take into account differences that may occur
between individuals of different genders or ages.
Namely, previous research suggests that the trait of
compulsive buying is significantly more prevalent
among women (Faber & O’Guinn, 1992; Zadka &
Olajossy, 2016), showing that the prevalence rate
of female compulsive buyers ranges from a low of
74 percent (Hanley & Wilhelm, 1992) to a high of
93 percent (Black, Repertinger, Gaffney, & Gabel,
1998). Additionally, studies have indicated that
younger people tend to make purchases more
compulsively than older people (Myers, 2000). The
primary purpose of the current study, which is
based on the model developed by Mrad & Cui
(2020), is to examine whether brand addiction has
an effect on compulsive buying and whether it
mediates the relationship between compulsive
buying, debt avoidance, and self-esteem, while
also examining the differences between
respondents of different genders.
Since consumer research has long recognized
the significance of comprehending the relationship
between compulsive purchasing and other
addictive behaviors (e.g., Faber, Christenson, de
Zwaan, & Mitchell, 1995; Faber & Christenson,
1996; Kwak, Zinkhan, & Lester Roushanzamir,
2004), the current study significantly adds to the
body of knowledge regarding addictive
consumption and the consumer-brand relationship.
The results of the current study can therefore serve
as a valuable knowledge base for marketers to
develop strategic marketing approaches and
practices to prevent adverse effects on consumers
and to promote consumers’ healthy consumption
and mental health. Customers appear to be
ravenous when it comes to compulsive and
impulsive buying, according to a Nielsen (2016)

Alić & Kadrić

Effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand addiction serve as a socially responsible mediator?

survey; this type of behavior and desire needs to be
studied, especially in emerging countries.
According to Lavuri and Thaichon (2023),
consumers originating from emerging countries
present a promising avenue for businesses to
address issues related to lifestyle, technology, and
financial inclusion. Their impact can be profound
and transformative. The consuming environment in
Bosnia and Herzegovina, a developing nation, and
emerging market, served as the backdrop for the
current study.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows.
The next section begins with a review of the
relevant literature on compulsive buying, brand
addiction, debt avoidance and self-esteem, and
then explains the proposed theoretical linkages.
After that, we present the methodology and main
findings. The last section concludes the paper with
a discussion on theoretical and managerial
implications, avenues for future research and
limitations.

1. Literature review
Compulsive shopping is a type of addiction and
represents purchasing that exceeds the needs and
available means of the individual. Unlike
impulsive buying, it is unethical because it can
have serious negative effects on consumers’
families or creditors in addition to them as
consumers. Numerous researchers have given their
own interpretation of the concept of compulsive
buying. Krueger (1988) states the following
definition of compulsive buying: “Compulsive
buying is an addictive and/or compulsive trait that
results from a series of repetitive buying motives
that disrupts the normal functioning of a person.”
O’Guinn & Faber (1989) define compulsive
buying as “chronic, repeated buying that occurs in
response to negative events and feelings”, while
Scherhon (1990) states that negative experiences,
boredom, stress, tension and anxiety, are
conditions that they lead a person to release
negative
feelings
by
shopping,
reduce
dissatisfaction and frustration, and increase selfconfidence. Accordingly, purchasing addiction is
characterized by excessive shopping-related
thoughts and buying actions that cause injury or
discomfort. Compulsive consumers also exhibit
fixation with shopping, pre-purchase anxiety, and
relief after a purchase (Black, 2007). What can be
concluded is that it is an addictive behavior, which
has the property of repetition, and is usually the
result of negative feelings that occur in an

individual, where the solution to the problem is
compulsive buying.
Compulsive buying or oniomania is a disorder
often associated with obsessive-compulsive
disorder, and arises as a consequence of some other
psychological disorder (e.g. depression). Due to
the loss of control over one’s own behavior or some
event, in order to avoid or reduce the feeling of
tension and helplessness, one tends to establish
some other form of control, in the specific case of
repeated shopping (Goldenson, 1984). When a
person is in a bad mood, they often try to improve
that situation by going shopping, which in most
cases ends up being that way. However, in the case
of compulsive buying disorder, this act gives
people a feeling of satisfaction and happiness, but
it lasts very short, because shortly after that,
feelings of guilt and awareness that the act of
shopping was wrong and unnecessary appear.
Despite the negative financial and psychological
effects of compulsive purchasing, such as credit
card debt, little to no savings, anxiety, depression,
irritability, interpersonal conflict, and low
confidence (O’Guinn & Faber, 1989; McElroy,
Keck, Pope, Smith, & Strakowski, 1994; Roberts,
1998), when anxiety recurs and a person’s mood
dips, they turn to shopping once more (Workman
& Paper, 2010). On the other hand, there is general
agreement that compulsive buying is not
necessarily pathological (dysfunctional), but rather
a severe form of purchasing habits related to
attitudes to money and ways to manage finance for
some people (Demetrovics & Griffiths, 2012;
Müller, Mitchell, & de Zwaan, 2015; Granero et
al., 2016). DeSarbo and Edwards (1996) noted that
many buyers with compulsive behaviors may be
more responsive to their present situation than
reflecting an essential psychological difficulty. For
example, Johnson and Attmann (2009) and later
Aksoy, Akpınar and Özkara (2023) found that
consumers with neuroticism are more likely to
indulge in obsessive purchasing.
Psychiatrists Kraepelin (1915) and Blueler
(1930) established that there are people
predisposed to the development of addictive
behavior, whether it is uncontrolled shopping,
alcohol addiction, pathological gambling, etc.
These predispositions can be hereditary (positive
family history of depressive disorder, mood
disorder or addiction), and can also be a
consequence of low levels of the happy hormone in
the brain (serotonin). In fact, a distinction can be
made between two basic groups of factors that
influence the development of compulsive buying:

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 039-060

41

42

Alić & Kadrić

Effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand addiction serve as a socially responsible mediator?

external (environmental) influences and internal
(psychological)
influences.
Psychological
influences coincide with human traits, such as
emotional instability, anxiety, low self-esteem and
depression, and are considered a key factor in the
development of compulsive behavior. Many recent
studies have focused on a more detailed
consideration of the connection between different
personality characteristics and compulsive buying
(Tarka, Harnish, & Babaev, 2022; Tarka, KukarKinney, & Harnish, 2022; Otero-López, 2022;
Moon, Faheem, & Farooq, 2022; Rizzo, Sestino,
Pino, Guido, Nataraajan, & Harnish, 2023; Ali,
Tauni, & Ali, 2023; Mert & Tengilimoğlu, 2023;
Aquino & Lins, 2023). The genesis of compulsive
buying behavior is linked to external factors like
pricing, product promotion, and credit cards
(Workman & Paper, 2010). Recent research also
takes a detailed look at external factors (Nanda,
Banerji, & Singh, 2023; Lavuri & Thaichon, 2023).
Although both factors can individually lead to the
emergence of shopping disorders, in most cases it
is their mutual interaction.
It is also important to emphasize the difference
between the concepts of compulsive and impulsive
buying, bearing in mind that the existing marketing
literature mainly dealt with issues of impulsive
buying. The terms impulsive and compulsive
buying differ in one very important characteristic:
compulsive buying represents a form of chronic
behavior, caused by a person’s internal state, in
contrast to impulsive buying, which represents an
occasional hasty form of behavior (Black, 2010).
Despite the fact that compulsive and impulsive
purchasing behaviors are strongly correlated
(Shahjehan, Qureshi, Zeb, & Saifullah, 2012),
compulsive purchasing involves an “inability to
control the urge” (Faber et al. 1995) and “leads to
extreme negative circumstances” (Ridgway,
Kukar-Kinney, & Monroe, 2006). Conversely,
impulsive purchasing happens “when a buyer
senses a quick, frequently powerful, and persistent
want to acquire something right away.” The desire
to purchase is hedonically complicated and can
cause emotional struggle; also, the will to purchase
is often accompanied by a lack of consideration for
its effects (Rook, 1987).
The truth is that as marketing as a discipline has
developed, it has had unforeseen repercussions that
have led to consumers spending more money and
purchasing unnecessary items, creating serious
problems for their well-being that include debt,
depressive symptoms, and poor health. Several
studies have demonstrated that a variety of

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 039-060

marketing strategies can take advantage of
shopping addiction to influence consumers’
purchasing decisions. Marketers can increase
profits and sales by implementing effective
segmentation techniques that consider compulsive
behaviors, gender-based variables, and purchasing
propensities (Zarate, Fullwood, Prokofieva,
Griffiths, & Stavropoulos, 2022). Previously,
Kaur, Maheshwari, and Kumar (2019)
recommended that marketers think about using
different markup techniques for different visible
places. In general, the external elements found in
the store setting and the attributes of the products
can be quite influential in promoting consumers’
compulsive buying behavior (Lavuri & Thaichon,
2023). However, it is crucial to recognize that
excessive shopping can also have negative effects
through the process of negative reinforcement. As
such, marketers must actively encourage
responsible spending habits rather than take
advantage of consumers’ trust (Guo, Liang, &
Wang, 2023). A growing body of study in
marketing, consumer behavior, and psychology
has revealed that, of all the frameworks that
examine the negative consequences or side effects
of purchasing, compulsive buying behavior poses
one of the biggest dangers to consumer well-being.
Because compulsive buying has a negative impact
on people’s life, it is considered to be a rising
problem that requires attention (Müller et al.,
2019). Furthermore, a study suggests that the
negative impacts of purchasing extend to one’s
family, social life, and finances in addition to one’s
own well-being (Sirgy, Lee, & Yu, 2020).
Therefore, for responsible marketers and future
research to find ways to focus on preventing the
emerging challenges around compulsive buying
behavior and how the strategies and techniques
should be implemented in a socially responsible
way, it is imperative that recent studies show how
consumers’ buying or purchasing behavior is
associated with consumer well-being or ill-being
(Nanda et al., 2023). An additional issue stems
from the fact that, as the proportion of consumers
who shop online has been steadily rising, it is
imperative that the issue of compulsive buying in
both online and offline channels be examined more
thoroughly (Olsen, Khoi, & Tuu, 2022). A change
from traditional offline to online compulsive
buying behavior disorder has occurred as a result
of the increase in e-commerce and the number of
individuals making purchases and shopping online
(Adamczyk, 2021; Augsburger et al., 2020; Baggio
et al., 2022; Fineberg, et al., 2022). Online

Alić & Kadrić

Effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand addiction serve as a socially responsible mediator?

purchasing and buying may have an increased
addictive potential due to certain internet
characteristics and e-marketing (Clark & Zack,
2023).
Finally, as a way to comprehend the concept of
compulsive buying in the business context, it is
necessary to clarify what the meaning of
possession is for a person. For individuals, to own
something means to accept it as a part of oneself
(Belk, 1988). In 1890, the philosopher and
psychologist William James pointed out in his
book The Principles of Psychology that a person’s
personality is not only made up of his physical and
psychological characteristics, but also includes
their family, work, material things, finances, etc.,
and if they are listed elements on the increase, the
man himself feels that he is successful, and if there
is a loss of them, he falls into despair. It does not
need to be explained, how much this phenomenon
of possession is related to brands in the modern
consumer society. Shopping is motivated by the
need to acquire tangible possessions, which has a
beneficial effect on the relationship between brand
engagement and purchasing (Goldsmith, Flynn, &
Clark, 2011, 2012), eventually resulting in the
development of brand fanaticism and brand
addiction (Le, 2020). Affluenza theory, as stated by
De Graaf, Wann and Naylor (2005), who first
coined the term affluenza, describes compulsive
buying behavior as a psychological and social
illness marked by a focus on cultural consumerism
and the idea that “more is always better”. In other
words, it is a destructive habit and an addiction that
is firmly established in the constant pursuit of
more. Workman and Paper (2010) claim that this
theory could serve as an analytical structure for
understanding the connection between compulsive
buying and brand consumption. In fact, marketing
is seen to be a contributing factor to compulsive
buying because of the pervasive messaging it uses
to encourage materialism and stoke consumer
cravings (see Damon, 1988; Roberts & Manolis,
2000). More specifically, compulsive buying is
defined by Chinomona (2013) as “an
uncontrollable and emotional addiction that is
socially and externally induced, for example,
through brand advertisements”, suggesting that the
behaviors of compulsive buyers and branding
phenomena may interact. Using three pairs of
notions related to “asset (benefit) or liability,” i.e.,
appealing or aggravating the self, enabling or
obstructing the self, and enriching or empowering
the self, Fournier and Alvarez (2013) developed an
attachment-aversion
relationship
(AA

Relationship) model. They argue that when selfrelevant advantages (enticing the self, enabling the
self, and enriching the self) materialize, the
consumer-brand relationship reaches a level
equivalent to other close human relationships.
Their model takes into consideration both the good
and the bad. Inferring from this justification, this
study claims that brand addiction and compulsive
shopping are two closely related conceptions in
terms of frequent comorbidity, and examines their
effects on self-esteem and debt avoidance.
2.1. Compulsive buying and brand addiction

With regard to consumer-brand interactions,
emotions run the gamut from light-hearted feelings
to strong affection that leads to compulsive
obsession (e.g., Fehr & Russell, 1991; Fournier,
1998; Sternberg, 1986). To understand the
relationship between consumers and brands along
a continuum resembling that of human
relationships, starting with non-intense emotions
and progressing through moderate emotions,
friendly emotions, passionate love, and addictive
obsession, Fournier’s theory (1998) draws on
interpersonal theories. According to Fournier’s
(1998) empirical research, there are some “dark
side” interactions between customers and brands,
including “dependence, hostility, servitude, and
covert affairs”. These connections appear to be
connected to general concepts of addiction
(Hirschman, 1992). However, if an addictive
consumer-brand relationship is sustained by the
advantages of luring oneself, enabling oneself, and
enriching oneself, it is unlikely that the relationship
is inevitably dominated by the “dark side” features
(Fournier & Alvarez, 2013).
Research indicates that, despite some overlaps,
brand addiction and brand loyalty are two separate
concepts in the context of consumer-brand
relations (Cui, Mrad, & Hogg, 2018). Brand
addiction actually covers a higher degree of brand
loyalty (Mrad & Cui, 2017). According to Cui et
al. (2018), brand addiction is seen positively as a
combination of several appetitive effects, including
contentment, gratification, and tranquility. On the
other hand, Fournier and Alvarez (2013) looked at
the negative aspects of brand addiction and
described it as a very intimate relationship where
customers may lose their sense of self as they grow
more attached to a brand. As a result, the addictive
relationship develops into a highly obsessive and
destructive one that pushes customers to engage in
risky behaviors like compulsive tendencies. These
behaviors can have detrimental long-term effects
STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 039-060

43

44

Alić & Kadrić

Effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand addiction serve as a socially responsible mediator?

on the company’s operations. On the other hand,
although there are studies that show that brand
loyalty can lead to detrimental outcomes, such as
price unfairness (for example, Riquelme, Roman,
Cuestas-Diaz, & Iacobucci, 2019), the generally
accepted view is that consumer-brand loyalty leads
to favorable behavior.
Brand addiction has developed as one of the
most prominent ways in which consumers connect
with brands since Fajer and Schouten (1995) first
brought addiction up in the context of consumers’
interactions with companies. According to Mrad
and Cui (2017), brand addiction is a psychological
condition in which a consumer is “mentally and
behaviorally preoccupied with a specific brand,
driven by irrational urges to own the brand’s
products, involving positive affectivity and
gratification.” It is a brand concept that refers to
consumers’ compulsive buying of the brand’s
items (Cui, Mrad, & Hogg, 2018; Weinstein et al.,
2016) and their addicted behavior toward the brand
in general. Their constant thoughts and intense
emotions are directed toward the brand (Das,
Agarwal, Malhotra, & Varshneya, 2019). Brand
addiction has been demonstrated to result in a
higher level of devotion compared to other brand
constructs (Estévez, Jáuregui, Sánchez-Marcos,
LópezGonzález, & Griffiths, 2017; Flores, 2004).
Brand addiction and acquisitive desire (AD), or
the need to obtain status and pricey possessions,
may exhibit some similarities. According to
Kottler, Montgomery, and Shepard (2004), an
excessive drive to gain, have, or collect goods
characterizes AD problems, and are associated
with symptoms like anxiety, sadness, and
impulsivity. The demand for symbols of success is
typically driven by an acquisitive desire albeit
these symbols are not always seen negatively
(Kottler et al. 2004).
Although brand addiction and compulsive
buying are both forms of addictive behavior, there
are significant variations between these two
concepts (Mrad & Cui, 2020). According to
research, obsessive purchasers frequently conceal
their purchases and are in denial about the severity
of their problems (Faber, O’Guinn, & Krych,
1987). Instead of hiding their addiction, brand
addicts publicly promote their obsession with their
addictive brands and take great pride in owning
products from such brands (Cui et al., 2018). While
brand addiction offers long-term satisfactions (Cui
et al., 2018), compulsive buying offers temporary
relief from dysphoric feelings (Faber et al., 1995).
Additionally, their focal point (or “focality”)

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 039-060

differs: whereas compulsive buying concentrates
on the process of shopping, purchasing, and
spending, brand addiction concentrates on a
specific brand (Mrad & Cui, 2017).
Considering the foregoing, consumers can gain
insight into the hedonic, practical, and/or symbolic
advantages of the brand through compulsive
buying, which may help them achieve goals that
are specific to them and bring the brand closer to
them (Fournier & Alvarez, 2013). To avoid
unpleasant outcomes, compulsive purchasers may
be influenced by negative reinforcement to reduce
their compulsive behavior and instead concentrate
on the advantages of forging stronger bonds with
specific brands. As a result, it is likely that certain
compulsive buyers would consciously consider the
brands they are exposed to repeatedly and grow an
addiction on a specific brand (Mrad & Cui, 2020).
According to what was stated above, the following
hypothesis was established:
H1: Compulsive buying has a positive impact
on brand addiction.
1.2. The consequences of compulsive buying
and brand addiction

Compulsive buying could have devastating
financial repercussions for a person. Compulsive
buyers find it difficult to regulate their spending
and may accumulate significant debt (Achtziger,
Hubert, Kenning, Raab, & Reisch, 2015). Using
loans to finance their purchases is a common habit
among compulsive buyers. According to their
reasoning, these people view buying things as a
way of coping with negative feelings and might
therefore turn to borrowing when their own
resources are insufficient to cover the cost of their
desire to acquire things (Black, 2007). According
to prior studies, compulsive shoppers frequently
lose control over their purchases and accumulate
extremely high levels of debt (Black, 2007;
Christenson, Faber, de Zwaan, Raymond, Specker,
et al., 1994; O’Guinn & Faber, 1989; Schlosser,
Black, Repertinger, & Freet, 1994; Achtziger et al.,
2015; Mestre-Bach, Steward, Jiménez-Murcia, &
Fernández-Aranda, 2017), whereby among the
numerous forms of loan reliance takes are credit
card debt, personal loans, and advances (Duh &
Thorsten, 2019; Maraz, Eisinger, Hende, Urbán,
Paksi, et al., 2015; Prawitz, Garman, Sorhaindo,
O’Neill, Kim, et al., 2006).
Less is understood about buyers’ compulsive
awareness to avoid debt, though. It is reasonable to
assume that most people do not aim to accumulate

Alić & Kadrić

Effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand addiction serve as a socially responsible mediator?

debt. Debt may be the result of irresponsible
spending or the fact that a person’s urge to spend
exceeds their awareness of how to avoid it. The
research in this area is a bit erratic. For instance, in
contrast to earlier research by the Kukar-Kinney et
al. (2012), which claimed that compulsive
shoppers are more conscious of costs and more
responsive to deals than non-compulsive shoppers,
a subsequent study by the same authors (KukarKinney, Scheinbaum, & Schaefers, 2016) refuted
this notion. According to the findings of the Mrad
and Cui (2020) study, compulsive buying has a
detrimental effect on debt avoidance. In view of the
aforementioned, we hypothesize:
H2: Compulsive buying has a negative impact
on debt avoidance.
Unlike research related to compulsive buying,
there is much less research on the negative
financial consequences of brand addiction.
Because of this, there is little evidence to prove that
brand addicts will undoubtedly incur debt or file
for bankruptcy. According to preliminary
empirical research in the literature, brand addicts
may set aside an amount of their regular earnings
to purchase the goods from their preferred brands
(Mrad & Cui, 2017) and “if necessary wait until
they can next afford to buy the addictive brand
either by saving money or by working very hard to
earn sufficient money” (Cui et al., 2018). These
first results imply that brand addicts are conscious
of the value of avoiding debt.
It can be argued, drawing on Cheema and
Soman’s (2008) partitioning theory that brand
addicts are actively involved in activities
associated with addictive brands, drawing attention
to the decision to buy, and leading to consumers
choosing to put off or postpone the purchase,
especially if it is expected to leave them in debts, if
it is anticipated to result in debts. Also, the AA
relationship model asserts that brand addicts, who
are dealing with challenging debt issues, are less
likely to be in a healthy psychological condition
(Mrad, 2018; Mrad & Cui, 2017; Cui et al., 2018).
Brand addiction recently received empirical
confirmation from Mrad and Cui (2020) that it
significantly improves the ability to avoid debt.
Based on the aforementioned, it is reasonable to
assume that:

H3: Brand addiction has a positive impact on
debt avoidance.
Consumer buying behavior models typically
imply that people tend to buy things that are
consistent with their own sense of self or with the
image they want to project. In particular, it has
been claimed that a buyer might contrast a
product’s symbolic or perceived qualities with its
potential to boost their self-esteem. Self-esteem is
the degree of a person’s positive self-concept and
is defined as how they feel about their own value
or worth (Rosenberg, 1979). According to Cooley
(1902) and Rosenberg (1979), an individual’s
sense of their own self-worth also reflects their
perceptions of what others think of them. The selfesteem motive may be one of the most powerful of
all human motives (Rosenberg 1979), which might
even be strong enough to override a behavior’s
constraints (Hanley and Wilhelm, 1992).
According to the literature, poor self-esteem
and feelings of powerlessness may be the
fundamental causes of compulsive/addictive
behaviors in general (Krueger 1988; D’Astous,
1990; DeSarbo & Edwards, 1996; Elliott, 1994;
Faber & O’Guinn, 1992; Hanley & Wilhelm,
1992). For instance, Eastman et al. (1997)
suggested that status indicators other than an
individual’s image or professional standing should
be ownership of status products. In this situation,
compulsive shopping is thought to be motivated by
low self-esteem.
However, it is also possible to view compulsive
buying as a way for certain people to overcome
their negative feelings (Ching & Wu, 2018) and
regain their self-esteem (Martinez-Novoa &
Hodges, 2016). DeSarbo and Edwards (1996)
demonstrate that compulsive buyers engage in
buying and purchasing behaviors to boost their
sense of self-worth, self-assurance, and personal
power. A lack of self-esteem, however, “may not
only be a precursor to compulsive buying, but also
an outcome of the vicious circle of addiction”
(DeSarbo & Edwards, 1996) when indulging in
such activities results in shopping addiction. In
other words, compulsive buying and self-esteem
are incompatible (Mrad & Cui, 2020).
Consequently, it is also proposed in the current
research that:

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 039-060

45

46

Alić & Kadrić

Effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand addiction serve as a socially responsible mediator?

H4: Compulsive buying has a negative impact
on self-esteem.
Consumers may “addictively get involved in
the consumption of products from certain brands as
a way to enhance their self-esteem through their
appearance” (Mrad & Cui, 2017), as a crucial
source of all-around self-esteem (Rosen & Gross,
1987). This runs counter to the vast majority of
compulsive buying research findings. According to
the literature, consumers buy particular goods like
jewelry and cosmetics to enhance their physical
appearance, which increases their sense of selfworth (Hoegg, Scott, Morales, & Dahl, 2014).
According to Hanley & Wilhelm (1992),
consumers are encouraged to support brands that
reflect their own self-image or allow them to
project their ideal selves. Additionally, there is
proof that the strongest factor influencing
customers’ emotional brand attachment is genuine
self-congruence (Huber, Eisele, & Meyer, 2018;
Japutra, Ekinci, & Simkin, 2019; Malär, Krohmer,
Hoyer, & Nyffenegger, 2011). According to Malär
et al. (2011), “actual self-congruence reflects the
consumer’s perception of the fit between the actual
self and the brand’s personality.” Brands serve as
symbols of personal achievement and provide
people with confidence by linking with their
mental self-representations (Escalas, 2004). Given
that consumers are driven in their thinking and
actions based on earlier retrospective experiences
involving self-awareness with some brands in
compulsive buying can set off an ongoing
cognitive process of selecting those brands and
establishing an attachment to the brands to sustain
a sense of self-esteem (Mrad & Cui 2020).
Empirical evidence supports the association
between brand addiction and self-esteem (Elhajjar,
Kaskas, & Tlaiss, 2022; Mrad & Cui, 2020). It
follows that it is conceivable to hypothesize that:
H5: Brand addiction has a positive impact on
self-esteem.
The directions of the impacts of compulsive
buying (all negative) and brand addiction (all
positive) show that brand addiction shows
competitive mediation effects (Zhao, Lynch Jr., &
Chen, 2010). In particular, brand addiction acts as
an inhibitor when it is triggered by compulsive
purchasing experiences (Kraemer, Stice, Kazdin,
Offord, & Kupfer, 2001), causing the negative
effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance
and self-esteem to be suppressed due to brand

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 039-060

addiction’s positive effects on these factors (Mrad
& Cui, 2020). In this case, becoming addicted to a
brand may enable a person to stop engaging in
compulsive buying, and the negative impacts of
compulsive buying may be mitigated by the brand
addiction experience. Considering the foregoing,
we recommend using the following mediation
assumptions:
H6: The relationship between compulsive
buying and debt avoidance in H2 is mediated by
brand addiction.
H7: The relationship between compulsive
buying and self-esteem in H4 is mediated by brand
addiction.
Many previous studies have found that gender
was related to compulsive buying behavior, where
females are more prone to compulsive buying than
males (Achtziger et al., 2015; Dittmar, 2005;
d’Astous, 1990; Hanley & Wilhelm, 1992;
O’Guinn & Faber, 1989; Roberts, 1998; Schlosser
et al., 1998). According to surveys, the proportion
of compulsive female shoppers varies between a
low of 74 percent (Hanley & Wilhelm, 1992) to a
high of 93 percent (Black et al., 1998). As a result,
studies on this subject frequently concentrate
solely on women (Yurchisin & Johnson, 2004).
Because they often utilize it to regulate their
emotions, women are more likely to indulge in
compulsive buying (Dittmar, Long, & Meek,
2004). Women place a greater emphasis on the
emotional and identity-related aspects of shopping
than do males (Babin, Darden, & Griffin, 1994;
Dittmar et al., 2004). They typically have positive
attitudes toward browsing, shopping, and social
interaction and associate purchasing with a “leisure
frame”, whereas men typically have negative
attitudes and perceive purchasing in a “work
frame”, as a task they want to complete with the
least amount of time and effort possible (Campbell,
2000). For instance, female consumers stated the
usage of apparel to promote a positive self-image
and increase confidence more frequently than male
shoppers (Dittmar & Drury, 2000). Clearly, for
certain commodities (such tools or computer
equipment), this overall tendency may be weaker
or even the opposite. These results lead us to the
expectation that the associations suggested by the
prior hypotheses (H1 through H5) will differ in
strength depending on the gender of the customer,
being stronger for women than for males (H8aH8e).

Alić & Kadrić

Effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand addiction serve as a socially responsible mediator?

2. Research method
2.1. Data collection and questionnaire design

The research is based on a quantitative approach,
using the survey questionnaire technique for the
research. This method is employed for a wide range
of data collection in empirical studies (Sarstedt,
Hair, Cheah, Becker, & Ringle, 2019). Using an

online questionnaire as a data collection tool, data
were gathered. Through the unlikely snowball
sampling technique, the respondents were
approached via email and social media sites
Facebook, Instagram, and LinkedIn. A total of 270
complete online questionnaires were collected by
adults from the Sarajevo Canton, Bosnia and
Herzegovina. Detailed breakdown of the sample
characteristics is shown in Table 1.

Table 1 Demographic characteristics

Variable
Gender
Female
Male
Age
Less than 25
26 - 45 years
46 and more
Income
Under BAM* 1,000
BAM 1,001 – 1,500
BAM 1,501 – 2,000
BAM 2,000 +

Frequencies

%

192
78

71.1
28.9

136
105
29

50.4
38.9
10.7

92
60
48
70

34.1
22.2
17.8
25.9

Variable
Education
High school or below
College or vocational school
Bachelor’s degree
Master’s degree or higher
Socio-economic status
Student
Unemployed
Employed
Retired

Frequencies

%

65
31
103
71

24.1
11.5
38.1
26.3

85
26
152
7

31.5
9.6
56.3
2.6

Note: * The Bosnia-Herzegovina Convertible Mark (BAM) is the national currency of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Source: the authors’ own research

The questionnaire comprised of thirty-three
questions, divided into two sections. The
sociodemographic information of respondents was
gathered in the first phase of the survey. The
questionnaire’s second segment included items
measuring the following constructs: (1)
compulsive buying – five items adapted from the
work of Faber and O’Guinn (1992); (2) brand
addiction and debt avoidance – 13 items adapted
from the work of Mrad and Cui (2017); and (3)
self-esteem – a shortened version of Rosenberg’s
(1965) RGSE scale (Rosenberg General SelfEsteem Scale) was used, whereby five items were
taken, while the negative items of the RGSE scale
were not included, considering that they are
associated with “self-discrepancy “ (Alessandri,
Vecchione, Eisenberg, & Łaguna, 2015), which is
not the focus of this study. A seven-point Likert
scale, with a range of 1 to 7, was used to score
statements that were positive in nature and related
to each concept. The original questionnaire was in
English, so we translated it and adapted it to the
official language of Bosnia and Herzegovina. A
pilot study was run with 40 participants, in order to
ensure that the participants would understand each
and every item used in the final questionnaire.

2.2. Data analysis

To test study hypotheses, partial least square
structural equation modelling (PLS-SEM) was
used. First, we looked at measurement models for
reliability metrics including factor loading,
Cronbach’s alpha, rho_A, and composite
reliability. Convergent and discriminant validity
were additionally guaranteed. Prior to modelling
structural equations, we also looked at model fit,
collinearity, and R-square. Fourth, we tested the
structural model, and presented the results of
structural modelling. For data analysis, we utilized
SPSS (version 24.0) and SmartPLS (version 3.3.3)
software.

3. Results
Following the aforementioned steps proposed by
Hair, Hult, Ringle, and Sarstedt (2018), a factor
loading test was first performed. The construct in
this scenario describes more than 50% of the
variation of the indicator, which ensures the
indicator has an adequate level of dependability.
Therefore, factor loading values above 0.7 are
advised (Hair et al., 2018). The factor loading
values in our research are presented in Table 2 and
as we can see, the values for all items meet the
previously mentioned criteria.

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 039-060

47

48

Alić & Kadrić

Effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand addiction serve as a socially responsible mediator?

Table 2 Scaling and measurement properties

Constructs
Compulsive
buying (CB)

Code
cb1
cb2
cb3
cb4
cb5

Brand
(BA)

addiction

ba1
ba2
ba3
ba4
ba5
ba6
ba7
ba8
ba9
ba10

Debt
(DA)

avoidance

Self-esteem (SE)

da1
da2
da3
se1
se2
se3
se4
se5

Dimensions and manifest variables

λ

If I have any money left at the end of the pay period, I just have
to spend it.
I felt anxious or nervous on days I didn’t go shopping.
I bought things even though I couldn’t afford them.
I made only the minimum payments on my credit cards.
I wrote a check when I knew I didn’t have enough money in
the bank to cover it.
I try very hard to get everything from my favorite brand.
I often fail to control myself from purchasing products of my
favorite brand.
I often find myself thinking about my favorite brand.
I tend to give up some life activities and duties such as the
occupational, academic and familial in order to fulfil some
activities related to my favorite brand.
I tend to allocate certain portion of my monthly income to buy
the products of my favorite brand.
I usually remember fondly the previous experience with my
favorite brand.
I experience a state of impatience immediately before I can
get hold of the products of my favorite brand.
I follow my favorite brand’s news all the time.
I usually plan when the next purchase of my favorite brand will
be.
I would invest my money in some way to my favorite brand in
order to support it.
I only spend as much as I can afford.
I will not purchase things I like if I know this will put me into
debt.
It is important to live within my means.
I feel that I am a person of worth, at least on an equal plane
with others.
I take a positive attitude towards myself.
I have a number of good qualities.
I am able to do things as well as most people.
On the whole, I am satisfied with myself.

Cronbach
alpha

rho_A

0.813
0.826
0.880
0.452*

0.868

0.876

0.864
0.779
0.755
0.807
0.747
0.789
0.923

0.938

0.843

0.854

0.914

0.927

0.701
0.789
0.778
0.718
0.768
0.875
0.889
0.851
0.796
0.881
0.894
0.861
0.873

Note: *This item was excluded in further research
Source: the authors’ own research

The Cronbach alpha coefficient and composite
reliability (CR) ratings were used in the second
step to verify the measurement scales’
dependability, as advised by Hair, Sarstedt, Ringle,
& Mena (2012). As shown in the previous table
(Table 2), Cronbach’s alpha coefficients are above
the minimum predicted threshold of 0.7 (Nunnally,
1978). Additionally, all of the study’s constructs
were found to be sufficiently trustworthy, with
scores for the overall reliability measure exceeding
the advised cut-off point of 0.70 (Fornell &
Larcker, 1981) (see Table 3).
The third step involves assessing the
convergent validity of the measurement scales.
Average variance extracted (AVE) is the metric
used to evaluate convergent validity. According to
Hair, Black, Babin, and Anderson (2010), AVE

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 039-060

values greater than 0.5 signify good convergent
validity. As can be seen in Table 3, the AVE values
for our measurement model are greater than 0.5,
which indicates good convergent validity.
The fourth step refers to the assessment of
discriminant validity, which shows the extent to
which each construct is empirically different from
other constructs in the model. Fornell and Larcker
(1981), as a traditional assessment of discriminant
validity, suggest that the AVE values of each
construct should be compared with the construct’s
squared correlation with all other constructs in the
model (as measures of shared variance), whereby
the shared variance should not be greater than
associated AVE values. Table III shows indicators
of discriminant validity, which point to acceptable
values and satisfactory discriminant validity.

Alić & Kadrić

Effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand addiction serve as a socially responsible mediator?

Table 3 Discriminant validity of constructs

Construct
Debt avoidance (DA)
Compulsive buying (CB)
Brand addiction (BA)
Self-esteem (SE)

CR
0.905
0.910
0.933
0.935

AVE
0.760
0.716
0.581
0.743

DA
0.872a
-0.413
-0.107
0.387

CB

BA

SE

0.846
0.487
-0.152

0.762
0.034

0.862

Note: aSquare root AVE values are in diagonals (bold) and correlations (r) are off-diagonal values
Source: the authors’ own research

The structural equation modelling technique
requires the elimination of multicollinearity
problems. The variance inflation factor (VIF) is
most often used for this purpose. When the VIF
values are higher, the level of multicollinearity is
higher. VIF values of 5 or more indicate
multicollinearity problems among constructs
(Huang, 2021). VIF values should ideally be below
or near to 3. The VIF values in our study are less
than 5, which puts them in the range of 1.000 and
1.311, and it shows that the variables are not
collinear.
We used SRMR and NFI indicators of
representativeness of the model. Acceptable values
of SRMR range between 0 and 1, and those less
than 0.008 can be considered ideal for good
representativeness of the model (Bentler & Bonett,
1980). The acceptable range of values for the NFI
indicator is between 0 and 1, and values greater
than 0.90 are the most acceptable in the context of
the representativeness of the overall model
(Bentler & Bonett, 1980; Hu & Bentler, 1998). In
our research, the SRMR value is 0.073, which is
less than 0.08. The NFI value is 0.815, and it is less
than 0.9, but shows a slight deviation from the cutoff value.
The bootstrapping approach was used to
evaluate the structure based on the favorable
outcomes. The main results of the study are
presented in Table 4 below. As can be seen, the
findings support hypothesis H1’s prediction that
compulsive buying and brand addiction have a
positive and highly significant connection (B =
0.487, p < 0.001). The compulsive buying was also
found to be negatively associated with the debt
avoidance (B = -0.473; p<0.001) and self-esteem
(B = -0.221; p<0.01), providing support for
hypotheses H2 and H3. It was also found that brand
addiction is positively related to debt avoidance (B

= 0.124; p<0.05), supporting hypothesis H4. In
addition, brand addiction and self-esteem were
found to be statistically significantly correlated (B
= 0.142; p 0.05), confirming hypothesis H5.
An assessment of model explanatory power
was also performed. The R-Sq values for the
endogenous variables ranged between 0.031–
0.245 across the samples (Female, Male, and
Complete sample) in the study. The R-Sq values
can be described as weak to substantial (Hair,
Ringle, & Sarstedt, 2013). Predictive relevance
was assessed using Q-Sq value. The Q-Sq values
of the endogenous constructs ranged from 0.005–
0.235. The Q-Sq values in the study can be
described as weak to substantial (Hair et al., 2013).
3.1. Mediation analysis

In order to evaluate the mediating function of brand
addiction in the connections between compulsive
buying and avoiding debt as well as the
connections between compulsive buying and selfesteem, mediation analysis was conducted. The
results (see Table 5) revealed a significant indirect
effect of CB on DA (B = 0.060, p < 0.05). The
direct effect of CB on DA was significant (B = 0.473, p < 0.001), and with the inclusion of the
mediator (BA), the total effect of CB on DA was
still significant (B = -0.413, p < 0.001). This shows
that brand addiction partially mediates the
relationship between CB and DA. Hence, H6 was
supported. The findings also showed that brand
addiction played a significant moderating
influence in the association between compulsive
buying and self-esteem (B = 0.069, p 0.05). As a
result, hypothesis H7 was supported because brand
addiction serves as a partly mediating factor in the
link between compulsive shopping and selfesteem.

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 039-060

49

50

Alić & Kadrić

Effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand addiction serve as a socially responsible mediator?

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 039-060

Alić & Kadrić

Effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand addiction serve as a socially responsible mediator?

4.2. Multi-group analysis

We examined the significant differences between
male and female regarding the effects of
compulsive buying on brand addiction, debt
avoidance, and self-esteem, as well as the effects
of brand addiction on debt avoidance and selfesteem. This is in line with the research
hypotheses. The results showed that none of the
differences were statistically significant, indicating
that there is no statistically significant distinction
in the path coefficients for males and females. In
this sense, our results do not support hypotheses
H8a to H8e. Table 6 lists the outcomes of the multigroup analysis.
Table 6 Multi-group analysis
Difference
Relationships
(Male – Female)

p-value

H8a: CB → BA

-0.040

0.155

H8b: CB → DA

-0.130

0.359

H8c: CB → SE

-0.047

0.373

H8d: BA → DA

0.005

0.487

-0.025

0.426

H8e: BA → SE

Source: the authors’ own research

5. Discussion
The primary goal of this study was to determine
how compulsive buying and brand addiction are
related, as well as their relationships with two
consumers behavioral outcomes, debt avoidance
and self-esteem. The current study also looked at
the mediating function of brand addiction in the
connections between compulsive buying and selfesteem and compulsive buying and debt avoidance.
Finally, gender differences are explored.
The study’s findings revealed that brand
addiction is significantly impacted by compulsive
buying. This result is consistent with a study by
Mrad & Cui (2020), which showed that some
consumers might change from compulsive
purchasing to brand addiction. In this study, brand
addiction was observed as an outcome of
compulsive buying, in contrast to earlier studies
where compulsive buying was regarded as a brand
addiction consequence (e.g. Cui et al., 2018;
Francioni, Curina, Hegner, & Cioppi, 2021;
Reimann, Castaño, Zaichkowsky, & Bechara,
2012). These results could be seen as showing how
the short-term rewards of compulsive buying lead
people to seek out the long-term rewards of brand
satisfaction, making them brand addicts (Faber et
al., 1995). As a result, the detrimental impacts of

compulsive buying (Faber & Christenson, 1996;
Faber & O’Guinn, 1992; Hassay & Smith, 1996;
O’Guinn & Faber, 1989) may be lessened due to
the potential that brand addiction coexists with
compulsive buying (Mrad & Cui, 2020). This
raises new questions about the underlying causes
of compulsive buying.
The findings further support the predictions
made by our model about the detrimental impacts
of compulsive buying and the beneficial effects of
brand addiction on self-esteem and debt avoidance.
Providing support for previous findings about
positive consequences of brand addiction (e.g., Cui
et al., 2018; Elliott, Eccles, & Gournay, 1996;
Mrad & Cui, 2017; Mrad & Cui, 2020), and
negative consequences of compulsive buying (e.g.
Achtziger et al., 2015; DeSarbo & Edwards, 1996;
Mestre-Bach et al., 2017; Mrad & Cui, 2020), these
results also empirically confirm the separation of
brand addiction from compulsive shopping, even
though both fall under the umbrella of
consumption addiction. The outcomes of these
associations improved the conceptual meanings of
these two important concepts in this way and
helped to clarify the differences between the two
types of addictive consumption.
In an effort to understand in more detail the
coexistence and combined action of the concepts of
compulsive buying and brand addiction, mediation
analysis was performed. This analysis shows that
brand addiction positively influences the
relationship between compulsive buying and selfesteem, as well as the relationship between
compulsive buying and avoiding debt. In other
words, there is a possibility that brand addiction
could mitigate or even erase the negative effects of
compulsive buying behavior. These findings are in
line with those of the Mrad and Cui (2020) study
as well. As such, to avoid or reduce harmful
addictive behavior like compulsive buying,
treatment programs may be improved by better
understanding the comorbidity effects between
these two linked forms of addiction (e.g. Faber et
al., 1995). Brand addiction may be a nonpathological addiction in terms of avoiding debt
and maintaining one’s self-esteem, according to
Mrad and Cui (2020), and it may coexist with
compulsive buying as a pathological addictive
habit in some consumers.
Ultimately, the multi-group analysis was
carried out to investigate differences between
males and females in the study’s context, in line
with many prior studies that have found that gender
plays a significant role in compulsive buying
STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 039-060

51

52

Alić & Kadrić

Effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand addiction serve as a socially responsible mediator?

behavior (e.g. Achtziger et al., 2015; Black et al.,
1998; Dittmar, 2005) or consumers’ connections to
brands (e.g. Basu Monga, 2002; Beck, 1988;
Wood, 2000). The research findings, however, did
not show that there is a statistically significant
difference when it comes to gender in any of the
hypothesized relationships in this research. The
reasons for such findings probably lie in the fact
that this is a general study, with the investigation
of general attitudes about the constructs of interest
in the research. In this sense, the pattern of
behavior of men and women is not significantly
different, and the intensity and direction of the
relationships between the constructs that are
investigated in this research can be generalized for
consumers, regardless of their gender. However, it
is to be expected that with the analysis of purchase
motives within different categories of products or
services, or research related to a specific brand, the
findings would be gender biased.
The study’s findings improved the conceptual
implications of these two important concepts and
gave brand managers and marketers a useful tool
for strategic brand management and strategic
marketing management in general by providing
empirical evidence that compulsive buying and
brand addiction are distinct but related behaviors.
It is common knowledge that businesses are up
against more competition than ever before, and
marketers confront a challenging challenge in
trying to comprehend consumer behavior. In order
to create, communicate, and deliver products that
add value to customers in exchanges with
organizations, organizations must first understand
organizational,
interorganizational,
and
environmental phenomena. These phenomena are
critical
to
an
organization’s
long-term
performance. Additionally, organizations must
understand how they behave in the marketplace
and in their interactions with competitors,
customers, and other external constituencies.
Lastly, organizations must understand the general
management responsibilities of the marketing
function to fulfil its boundary-spanning role
(Varadarajan, 2015). Due to the fact that the
consumer serves as the user, buyer, and payer in
the process, consumer behavior is crucial to
strategic marketing. When the variables that
impact consumer behavior change, so does the
behavior of the consumers. In this regard, it is
crucial for marketing decision-making at the
strategic level to summarize consumer behavior
both generally and in the current context of very
prevalent, concerning, and addictive shopping

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 039-060

behaviors. While your brand undoubtedly shapes
how the outside world perceives your company, it
also serves as a tool for self-identification and selfunderstanding for consumers. The company’s
brand is its reputation and primary differentiator. It
is unquestionable that strategic brand management
is essential to attracting and retaining customers.
Therefore, to support the strategic marketing
planning process, the strategic brand management
must carefully align the company’s global
marketing strategy with the intended brand image
and plan the brand’s medium- and long-term goals
(Erdil, 2013). The significance of the study’s
findings increases when we consider how
commonly accepted it is that marketing plays a
significant role in our corporate environment and
that businesses have social obligations related to
corporate social responsibility. The idea of
corporate social responsibility challenges
excessive consumption and environmental harm
brought on by businesses. It is predicated on the
notion that, in addition to being profit-driven,
market offerings ought to uphold moral and social
principles for the good of the populace. Corporate
Social Responsibility (CSR) is being pushed as a
business model to assist corporations in selfregulation, realizing that their actions affect a
variety of stakeholders, including the public
(Armstrong & Kotler, 2008). It is accurate to
discuss the idea of social marketing, which
maintains that companies should provide pertinent
information about their goods to minimize the
negative environmental effects of their products
and safeguard public health and the environment as
a whole. It further asserts that marketing initiatives
must be planned with consideration for both
environmental and societal responsibility.
According to Sârghie (2021), “social marketing
may be one of the few avenues (if not the only) to
effectively and broadly confront this problem, a
problem with serious consequences for the affected
people, their families and social networks, as well
as society at large”.

6. Conclusion
The theoretical framework for the present study
was provided by theoretical viewpoints on
compulsive buying, which viewed it as a
particularly extreme instance of psychologically
motivated purchasing that is characteristic of
modern consumer culture. The current study
departs from this long-held conventional wisdom
and requires examination of this contentious
subject from a marketing viewpoint, despite the

Alić & Kadrić

Effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand addiction serve as a socially responsible mediator?

increasing acceptance of compulsive buying
behavior as a serious clinical issue that requires
psychological and psychiatric assistance (Black,
2007; Croissant, Klein, Löber, & Mann, 2009;
Mueller et al., 2011; Palan, Morrow, & Trapp,
2011). This study made a successful effort to link
compulsive buying behavior to branding
phenomena or the interaction between the two.
The current study focused more carefully on
determining how brand addiction and compulsive
buying are related, as well as how these factors
affect consumers’ ability to manage their debt and
feel confident in themselves. More interesting, the
study considered gender differences in the patterns
of association between four mentioned constructs
(compulsive buying, brand addiction, debt
avoidance, and self-esteem). Additionally, the
current study looks into these controversial
problems in the perspective of developing
economy research, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Therefore, it is anticipated that both academics and
practitioners will benefit from the outcomes of this
empirical study in terms of fresh insights and
implications.
6.1. Theoretical and managerial implications

By methodically examining the effect of
compulsive buying behavior on branding addiction
and their concomitant influence on debt avoidance
and self-esteem in the context of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, one of the developing counties on the
European continent, this study significantly
contributes to the body of knowledge in the
academic fields of brand management, marketing,
consumer study, and clinical psychology. In
particular, in terms of their effects on consumers,
current research shows variations between
compulsive buying and brand addiction. These
findings provide important evidence that it is
crucial to distinguish between distinct types of
addiction, some of which may have negative
consequences whereas others may not (O’Guinn &
Faber, 1989). One important implication is that the
concept of addiction in consumer study needs to
encompass excessive but non-pathological (i.e.,
not leading to dysfunctional outcomes) addictions.
Without assuming that all addictions are
pathological or akin to substance addiction,
research into these addictions should be done.
Additionally, this study shows how brand
addiction acts as a helpful mediator in the
connections between compulsive buying, selfesteem, and debt avoidance. The possibility that
brand addiction may coexist with compulsive

buying raises new questions about what underlying
factors may help turn an individual’s tendency for
compulsive buying into brand addiction for more
advantageous
consumption,
even
though
compulsive buying can have negative effects
(Faber & Christenson, 1996; Faber & O’Guinn,
1992; Hassay & Smith, 1996; O’Guinn & Faber,
1989). There is still much to learn about the
advantages and disadvantages of brand
dependency as well as how the coexistence of the
two addictions influences consumers’ thoughts and
behavior in response to their encounters in life and
the marketing environments. The literature
currently available describes many negative effects
of compulsive buying, but there is still much to
learn about the positive and negative aspects of
brand addiction. In this sense, the study argues that
clinical psychologists aiming to treat compulsive
buying behavior should start to think about this
issue as involving both marketing and branding as
well as the interaction of psychological and
societal elements.
From the managerial perspective, the findings
of this study present a significant ethical
conundrum for businesses or business marketers.
For many years, the persistently negative
connotation of addicted consuming makes it
difficult for businesses to promote their goods and
brands without running the risk of ethical
marketing issues. However, there has been an
evident change in business strategy in recent years,
as a result of significant changes in consumer
behavior as well as the introduction of new digital
and communication technologies. In the hierarchy
of significance, the client now takes precedence
over the product rather than the other way around.
Therefore, it has become essential that businesses
develop plans that aid in the development of solid,
long-lasting relationships with their customers.
Because of this, marketing today serves a number
of purposes in addition to generating quick profits,
such as giving people access to healthy options,
improving their quality of life, and benefiting
society as a whole (e.g. Horváth & Adgüzel, 2018;
Horváth & Birgelen, 2015). Based on the findings
of this study, which demonstrate that brand
addiction has beneficial impacts on consumers’
self-esteem and debt avoidance and that
compulsive buying may have a less negative
impact on these results when brand addiction is
present, marketing specialists can examine
techniques for improving customer-brand
interactions that could lessen or possibly eliminate

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 039-060

53

54

Alić & Kadrić

Effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand addiction serve as a socially responsible mediator?

some of the adverse impacts of compulsive
consumer purchase.
Marketing practitioners can use guilt-inducing
reminders of the negative effects of overspending
and accruing debt from compulsive buying in their
marketing communications to improve the
evaluation of bad consumer behavior and promote
good, healthy consumption through strong
relationships with brands. Brands can defend
themselves against accusations that their marketing
strategies encourage out-of-control spending in
this way. For example, marketing professionals can
develop effective strategies to inform consumers,
boost consumers’ positive mind-sets and actions in
these features, and send clear messages on
avoiding undesirable behaviors like excessive
spending through the brand’s touchpoints, such as
marketing, sales campaigns, narratives in new
product releases, and social media platforms. For
instance, the information could include a phone
number or internet address, where obsessive
purchasers can call to obtain assistance for their
issue (Shulman, 2015).
Certainly, the question is justified: Why would
companies do this? In this context, one must not
forget that one of the fundamental strategic
postulates of marketing is the maintenance of longterm relationships with consumers. In addition, the
fact that new generations are much more sensitive
to the ethical and social responsibility of
companies (Yamane & Kaneko, 2021) and
accordingly oriented towards ethically responsible
consumption, must be taken into account when
making decisions about strategic marketing and in
general business goals of companies.
6.2. Limitations and future research

Regardless of the evident academic and practical
contributions of the study, some limitations are
worth acknowledging. First, the generalizability of
our findings may be limited, given that this study
adopts a convenience sample with relatively small
sample size (N = 270). To validate the findings of
the current study, additional research using bigger,
probability-based samples should be encouraged.
In addition, future research can be done by
focusing on specific brands, which can certainly
help determine potential differences in the
mentioned addiction phenomena, in terms of
gender. Second, the current study did not examine
the causes of the two types of addiction and their
impacts on other outcomes outside the current
research’s scope of debt avoidance and selfesteem. In order to improve our understanding of
STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 039-060

the potential causes and interactions that arise
when compulsive buying and brand addiction
coexist
within
a
consumer’s
addictive
consumption,
additional
studies—especially
experimental and longitudinal studies—can extend
our research by examining other pertinent
antecedents and consequences of compulsive
purchasing and brand addiction. Future researchers
are encouraged to investigate the theory in various
nations, cultural contexts and with different
product categories, with the option of using
observational techniques to gauge the participants’
emotional and behavioral reactions (for example,
experiments). Considering the growing trend of
older adults using the internet, comparing different
generations could also be a topic of future research.
Empirical studies should assess compulsive
customers’ perceived or real vulnerability and how
it affects their susceptibility to marketing
campaigns.

References
Achtziger, A., Hubert, M., Kenning, P., Raab, G., & Reisch,
L. (2015). Debt out of control: the links between selfcontrol, compulsive buying, and real debts. Journal of
Economic Psychology, 49, 141-149.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joep.2015.04.003
Adamczyk, G. (2021). Compulsive and compensative
buying among online shoppers: an empirical study.
PLoS ONE 16(6), e0252563.
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0252563
Aksoy, B., Akpınar, A., & Özkara, B. Y. (2023). The impact
of neuroticism on compulsive buying behavior: the
mediating role of the past-negative time perspective
and the moderating role of the consumer’s need for
uniqueness, Journal of Marketing Theory and Practice,
31(3), 352-367.
https://doi.org/10.1080/10696679.2022.2076247
Alessandri, G., Vecchione, M., Eisenberg, N., & Łaguna, M.
(2015). On the factor structure of the Rosenberg (1965)
General Self-Esteem Scale. Psychological Assessment,
27(2), 621–635.
https://doi.org/10.1037/pas0000073
Ali, A., Tauni, M. Z., & Ali, A. (2022). The Big Five dyad
congruence and compulsive buying: a case of service
encounters. Journal of Retailing and Consumer
Services, 68(2), 103007.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jretconser.2022.103007
Armstrong, G, & Kotler, P. (2008). Principles of Marketing.
12th ed. New Jersey: Pearson Education.
Aquino, S. D., & Lins, S. (2023). The personality puzzle: a
comprehensive analysis of its impact on three buying
behaviors. Frontiers in Psychiatry, 14, 1179257.
https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyt.2023.1179257
Augsburger, M., Wenger, A., Haug, S., Achab, S., Khazaal,
Y., Billieux, et al., (2020). The concept of buyingshopping disorder: comparing latent classes with a
diagnostic approach for in-store and online shopping in
a representative sample in Switzerland. Journal of
Behavioral Addictions, 9(3), 808–817.
https://doi.org/10.1556/2006.2020.00051

Alić & Kadrić

Effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand addiction serve as a socially responsible mediator?

Babin, B. J., Darden, W. R., & Griffin, M. (1994). Work and/or
fun: measuring hedonic and utilitarian shopping
value. Journal of Consumer Research, 20(4), 644–656.
https://doi.org/10.1086/209376
Baggio, S., Starcevic, V., Billieux, J., King, D. L., Gainsbury,
S. M., Eslick, G. D., et al. (2022). Testing the spectrum
hypothesis of problematic online behaviors: a network
analysis approach. Addictive Behaviors, 135, 107451.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.addbeh.2022.107451.
Basu Monga, A. (2002). Brand as a relationship partner:
gender differences in perspectives. In S. M.,
Broniarczyk & K. Nakamoto (Eds.), Advances in
Consumer Research, Volume 29 (pp. 36-41). Valdosta:
Association for Consumer Research.
Beck, A. T. (1988). Love is Never Enough. New York:
Harper & Row.
Belk, R. (1988). Possessions and the extended self. Journal
of Consumer Research, 15(2), 139–168.
https://doi.org/10.1086/209154
Bentler, P. M., & Bonett, D. G. (1980). Significance tests
and goodness of fit in the analysis of covariance
structures. Psychological Bulletin, 88(3), 588–606.
https://doi.org/10.1037/0033-2909.88.3.588
Billieux, J., Van Der Linden, M., & Rochat, L. (2008). The
role of impulsivity in actual and problematic use of the
mobile phone. Applied Cognitive Psychology, 22(9),
1195-1210.
https://doi.org/10.1002/acp.1429
Black, D. (2010). Compulsive buying: clinical aspects. In E.
Aboujaoude & L. Koran (Eds.), Impulse Control
Disorders (pp. 5-22). Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511711930.002
Black, D. W. (2007). A review of compulsive buying
disorder. World Psychiatry: official journal of the World
Psychiatric Association (WPA), 6(1), 14–18.
Black, D. W., Repertinger, S., Gaffney, G. R., & Gabel, J.
(1998). Family history and psychiatric comorbidity in
person with compulsive buying. American Journal of
Psychiatry, 155(7), 960-963.
https://doi.org/10.1176/ajp.155.7.960
Bleuler, E. (1930). Textbook of psychiatry. New York:
Macmillan.
Campbell, C. (2000). Shopaholics, spendaholics, and the
question of gender. In A. Benson (Ed.), I shop,
therefore I am: compulsive buying and the search for
self (pp. 57-75). New York: Aronson.
Cheema, A., & Soman, D. (2008). The effect of partitions on
controlling consumption. Journal of Marketing
Research, 45(6), 665-675.
https://doi.org/10.1509/jmkr.45.6.665
Ching, B. H. H., & Wu, X. (2018). Parental conflicts and
materialism in adolescents: emotional insecurity as a
mediator. Journal of Adolescence, 69(1), 189-202.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.adolescence.2018.07.019
Chinomona, R. (2013). An empirical examination of the
predictors of consumer compulsive buying as an
“Impulse control disorder not otherwise specified”: a
branding perspective. Journal of Applied Business
Research, 29(6), 1689–703.
https://doi.org/10.19030/jabr.v29i6.8207

Christenson, G. A., Faber, R. J., de Zwaan, M., Raymond,
N. C., Specker, S. M., Ekern, M. D., Mackenzie, T. B.,
Crosby, R. D., Crow, S. J., & Eckert, E. D. (1994).
Compulsive buying: descriptive characteristics and
psychiatric comorbidity. The Journal of clinical
psychiatry, 55(1), 5–11.
Clark, L., & Zack, M. (2023). Engineered highs: reward
variability and frequency as potential prerequisites of
behavioural addiction. Addictive Behaviors, 140,
107626.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.addbeh.2023.107626
Cooley, C. H. (1902), Human Nature and the Social Order.
New York: Scribner’s.
Croissant, B., Klein, O., Löber, S., & Mann, K. (2009). A
case of compulsive buying--impulse control disorder or
dependence disorder? Psychiatry Research, 36(4):189192.
https://doi.org/10.1055/s-2008-1067522
Cui, C. C., Mrad, M., & Hogg, M. K. (2018). Brand addiction:
exploring the concept and its definition through an
experiential lens. Journal of Business
Research, 87, 118-127.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2018.02.028
Damon, J. (1988). Shopaholics: Serious help for addicted
spenders. Los Angeles: Price, Stern and Sloan.
Das, G., Agarwal, J., Malhotra, N. K., & Varshneya, G.
(2019). Does brand experience translate into brand
commitment?: A mediated-moderation model of brand
passion and perceived brand ethicality. Journal of
Business Research, 95, 479-490.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2018.05.026
d’Astous, A. (1990). An inquiry into the compulsive side of
“normal” consumers. Journal of Consumer Policy, 13,
15-31.
https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00411867
De Graaf, J., Wann, D., & Naylor. T. H. (2005). Affluenza:
The a/I-consuming epidemic. 2nd ed. San Francisco:
Berrett-Koehler.
Demetrovics, Z., & Griffiths, M. D. (2012). Behavioral
addictions: past, present and future. Journal of
Behavioral Addictions, 1, 1-2.
https://doi.org/10.1556/JBA.1.2012.1.0
DeSarbo, W. S., & Edwards, E. A. (1996). Typologies of
compulsive buying behavior: a constrained clusterwise
regression approach. Journal of Consumer Psychology,
5(3), 231-262.
https://doi.org/10.1207/s15327663jcp0503_02
Dittmar, H. (2005). Compulsive buying - a growing concern?
An examination of gender, age and endorsement of
materialistic values as predictors. British Journal of
Psychology, 96(4), 467-491.
https://doi.org/10.1348/000712605X53533
Dittmar, H., & Drury, J. (2000). Self-image - Is it in the bag?
A qualitative comparison between “ordinary” and
“excessive” consumers. Journal of Economic
Psychology, 21(2), 106-145.
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0167-4870(99)00039-2
Dittmar, H., Long, K. & Meek, R. (2004). Buying on the
internet: gender differences in on-line and conventional
buying motivations. Sex Roles, 50, 423–444.
https://doi.org/10.1023/B:SERS.0000018896.35251.c7
Duh, H., & Thorsten, T. (2019). Preventing compulsive
shopping among young South-Africans and Germans.
Young Consumers, 20(1), 29-43.
https://doi.org/10.1108/YC-08-2018-0842

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 039-060

55

56

Alić & Kadrić

Effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand addiction serve as a socially responsible mediator?

Eastman, J. K., Fredenberger, B., Campbell, D., & Calvert,
S. (1997). The relationship between status consumption
and materialism: a cross-cultural comparison of
Chinese, Mexican, and American Student. Journal of
Marketing Theory and Practice, 5(1), 52-66.
https://doi.org/10.1080/10696679.1997.11501750
Elhajjar, S., Kaskas, M., & Tlaiss, S. (2022). Investigating
the causes and consequences of addiction to high-tech
brands. Technology Analysis & Strategic
Management, 34(8), 974-987.
https://doi.org/10.1080/09537325.2021.1934438
Elliott, R. (1994). Addictive consumption: function and
fragmentation in postmodernity. Journal of Consumer
Policy, 17, 159-179.
https://doi.org/10.1007/BF01016361
Elliott, R., Eccles, S., & Gournay, K. (1996). Revenge,
existential choice, and addictive consumption.
Psychology & Marketing, 13(8), 753-768.
https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)15206793(199612)13:8<753::AID-MAR3>3.0.CO;2-E
Erdil, T. S. (2013). Strategic brand management based on
sustainable-oriented view: an evaluation in Turkish
home appliance industry. Procedia-Social and
Behavioral Sciences, 99, 122–132.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2013.10.478
Escalas, J. E. (2004). Narrative processing: building
consumer connections to brands. Journal of Consumer
Psychology, 14(1-2), 168-180.
https://doi.org/10.1207/s15327663jcp1401&2_19
Estévez, A., Jáuregui, P., Sánchez-Marcos, I., LópezGonzález, H., & Griffiths, M. D. (2017). Attachment and
emotion regulation in substance addictions and
behavioral addictions. Journal of behavioral
addictions, 6(4), 534–544.
https://doi.org/10.1556/2006.6.2017.086
Faber, R. J., & Christenson, G. A. (1996). In the mood to
buy: differences in the mood states experienced by
compulsive buyers and other consumers. Psychology &
Marketing, 13(8), 803-819.
https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)15206793(199612)13:8<803::AID-MAR6>3.0.CO;2-J
Faber, R. J., & O’Guinn, T. C. (1992). A clinical screener for
compulsive buying. Journal of Consumer Research,
19(3), 459-469.
https://doi.org/10.1086/209315
Faber, R. J., O’Guinn, T. C., & Krych, R. (1987).
Compulsive consumption. In M. Wallendorf, & P.
Anderson (Eds.), Advances in consumer research (Vol.
14) (pp. 132–135). Provo: Association for Consumer
Research.
Faber, R., Christenson, G., de Zwaan, M., & Mitchell, J.
(1995). Two forms of compulsive consumption:
comorbidity of compulsive buying and binge eating.
Journal of Consumer Research, 22(3), 296–30.
https://doi.org/10.1086/209451
Fajer, M. T., & Schouten, J. W. (1995). Breakdown and
dissolution of person-brand relationships. Advances in
Consumer Research, 22(1), 663-667.
Fehr, B., & Russell, J. A. (1991). The concept of love
viewed from a prototype perspective. Journal of
Personality and Social Psychology, 60(3), 425– 443.
https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-3514.60.3.425

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 039-060

Fineberg, N. A., Menchon, J. M., Hall, N., Dell’Osso, B.,
Brand, M., Potenza, M. N., et al. (2022). Advances in
problematic usage of the internet research - a narrative
review by experts from the European network for
problematic usage of the internet. Comprehensive
Psychiatry, 118, 152346.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comppsych.2022.152346
Flores . P. J. (2004). Addiction as an Attachment Disorder.
Oxford: Jason Aronson.
Fornell, C., & Larcker, D. F. (1981). Evaluating structural
equation models with unobservable variables and
measurement error. Journal of Marketing Research,
18(1), 39-50.
https://doi.org/10.1177/002224378101800104
Fournier, S. (1998). Consumers and their brands:
developing relationship theory in consumer research.
Journal of Consumer Research, 24(4), 343-353.
https://doi.org/10.1086/209515
Fournier, S., & Alvarez, C. (2013). Relating badly to brands.
Journal of Consumer Psychology, 23(2), 253-264.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcps.2013.01.004
Francioni, B., Curina, I., Hegner, S. M., & Cioppi, M. (2021).
Brand addiction: brand characteristics and
psychological outcomes. Journal of Consumer
Marketing, 38(2), 125-136.
https://doi.org/10.1108/JCM-02-2020-3678
Goldenson, R. M. (1984). Longman dictionary of
psychology and psychiatry. New York: Longman.
Goldsmith, R. E., Flynn, L. R. & Clark, R. A. (2012).
Materialistic, brand engaged and status consuming
consumers and clothing behaviors. Journal of Fashion
Marketing and Management, 16(1), 102–119.
https://doi.org/10.1108/13612021211203050
Goldsmith, R. E., Flynn, L. R., & Clark, R. A. (2011).
Materialism and brand engagement as shopping
motivations. Journal of Retailing and Consumer
Services, 18(4), 278–284.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jretconser.2011.02.001
Granero, F., Fernández-Aranda, T. Steward, G. MestreBach, M. Baño, A., et al. (2016). Compulsive buying
behavior: characteristics of comorbidity with gambling
disorder. Frontiers in Psychology, 7, 625.
https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2016.00625
Guo, L., Liang, A., & Wang, Z. (2023). The psychology of
shopping addiction in consumer behaviour. Journal of
Psychology Research. 13(9). 425-435.
https://doi.org/10.17265/2159-5542/2023.09.004
Hair, J. F., Black, W. C., Babin, B. J., & Anderson, R. E.
(2010). Multivariate data analysis. 7th ed. Upper Saddle
River: Pearson Prentice Hall.
Hair, J. F., Hult, G. T. M., Ringle, C. M., & Sarstedt, M.
(2018). A Primer on Partial Least Squares Structural
Equation Modeling (PLS-SEM). Thousand Oaks: Sage.
Hair, J. F., Jr., Ringle, C. M., & Sarstedt, M. (2013). Partial
least squares structural equation modeling: rigorous
applications, better results and higher acceptance.
International Journal of Strategic Management, 46(1-2),
1–12.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2013.01.001
Hair, J. F., Sarstedt, M., Ringle, C. M., & Mena, J. A. (2012)
An assessment of the use of partial least squares
structural equation modeling in marketing research.
Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 40, 414433.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11747-011-0261-6

Alić & Kadrić

Effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand addiction serve as a socially responsible mediator?

Hanley, A., & Wilhelm, M. S. (1992). Compulsive buying: An
exploration into self-esteem and money attitudes.
Journal of Economic Psychology, 13(1), 5-18.
https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-4870(92)90049-D
Hassay, D. N., & Smith, M. C. (1996). Compulsive buying:
an examination of the consumption motive. Psychology
& Marketing, 13(8), 741-752.
https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)15206793(199612)13:8<741::AID-MAR2>3.0.CO;2-F
Hirschman, E. C. (1992). The consciousness of addiction:
toward a general theory of compulsive consumption.
Journal of Consumer Research, 19(2), 155- 179.
https://doi.org/10.1086/209294
Hoegg, J., Scott, M. L., Morales, A. C., & Dahl, D. W.
(2014). The flip side of vanity sizing: how consumers
respond to and compensate for larger than expected
clothing sizes. Journal of Consumer Psychology, 24(1),
70-78.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcps.2013.07.003
Horváth, C., & Adıgüzel, F. (2018). Shopping enjoyment to
the extreme: hedonic shopping motivations and
compulsive buying in developed and emerging markets.
Journal of Business Research, 86, 300-310.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2017.07.013
Horváth, C., & Birgelen, M. V. (2015). The role of brands in
the behavior and purchase decisions of compulsive
versus noncompulsive buyers. European Journal of
Marketing, 49(1/2), 2-21.
https://doi.org/10.1108/EJM-10-2012-0627
Hu, L.-t., & Bentler, P. M. (1998). Fit indices in covariance
structure modeling: sensitivity to underparameterized
model misspecification. Psychological Methods, 3(4),
424–453.
https://doi.org/10.1037/1082-989X.3.4.424
Huang, C-H. (2021). Using PLS-SEM model to explore the
influencing factors of learning satisfaction in blended
learning. Education Sciences, 11(5), 249.
https://doi.org/10.3390/educsci11050249
Huber, F., Eisele, A., & Meyer, F. (2018). The role of actual,
ideal, and ought self-congruence in the consumption of
hedonic versus utilitarian brands. Psychology &
Marketing, 35(1), 47-63.
https://doi.org/10.1002/mar.21070
James, W. (1890). The principles of psychology,Vol 1. New
York: Henry Holt and Co.
https://doi.org/10.1037/10538-000
Japutra, A., Ekinci, Y, & Simkin, L. (2019). Self-congruence,
brand attachment and compulsive buying. Journal of
Business Research, 99, 456-463.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2017.08.024
Johnson, T., & Attmann, J. (2009). Compulsive buying in a
product specific context: clothing. Journal of Fashion
Marketing and Management: An International Journal,
13(3), 394-405.
https://doi.org/10.1108/13612020910974519
Kaur, M., Maheshwari, S. K., & Kumar, A. (2019).
Compulsive buying behavior and online shopping
addiction among health science teachers. International
Journal of Nursing Care, 7(1), 74–80.
https://doi.org/10.5958/2320-8651.2019.00014.0
Kesebir, S., İşitmez, S., & Gündoğar, D. (2012). Compulsive
buying in bipolar disorder: Is it a comorbidity or a
complication?. Journal of Affective Disorders, 136(3),
797-802.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jad.2011.09.037

Koran, L. M., & Aboujaoude, E. (2010) Impulsive Control
Disorders. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Kottler, J., Montgomery, M., & Shepard, D. (2004).
Acquisitive desire: assessment and treatment. In T.
Kasser & A. D. Kanner (Eds.), Psychology and
Consumer Culture: The Struggle for a Good Life in a
Materialistic World (pp. 149–168), Washington:
American Psychological Association.
Kraemer, H. C., Stice, E., Kazdin, A., Offord, D., & Kupfer,
D. (2001). How do risk factors work together?
Mediators, moderators, and independent, overlapping,
and proxy risk factors. American Journal of Psychiatry,
158(6), 848-856.
https://doi.org/10.1176/appi.ajp.158.6.848
Kraepelin, E. (1915). Psychiatrie. 8th ed. Leipzig: Barth.
Krueger, D. W. (1988). On compulsive shopping and
spending: a psychodynamic inquiry. American journal of
psychotherapy, 42(4), 574–584.
https://doi.org/10.1176/appi.psychotherapy.1988.42.4.5
74
Kukar-Kinney, M. M., Ridgway, N., & Monroe, K. B. (2012).
The role of price in the behavior and purchase
decisions of compulsive buyers. Journal of Retailing,
88(1), 63-71.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jretai.2011.02.004
Kukar-Kinney, M., Scheinbaum, A. C., & Schaefers, T.
(2016). Compulsive buying in online daily deal settings:
an investigation of motivations and contextual elements.
Journal of Business Research, 69(2), 691-699.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2015.08.021
Kwak, H., Zinkhan, G. M., & Lester Roushanzamir, E. P.
(2004). Compulsive comorbidity and its psychological
antecedents: a cross-cultural comparison between the
US and South Korea. Journal of Consumer Marketing,
21(6), 418-434.
https://doi.org/10.1108/07363760410558681
Le, M. T. H. (2020). Social comparison effects on brand
addiction: a mediating role of
materialism. Heliyon, 6(11), e05460.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e05460
Lavuri, R., & Thaichon, P. (2023), “Do extrinsic factors
encourage shoppers’ compulsive buying? Store
environment and product characteristics”. Marketing
Intelligence & Planning, 41(6), 722-740.
https://doi.org/10.1108/MIP-03-2023-0097
Malär, L., Krohmer, H., Hoyer, W. D., & Nyffenegger, B.
(2011). Emotional brand attachment and brand
personality: the relative importance of the actual and
the ideal self. Journal of Marketing, 75(4), 35-52.
https://doi.org/10.1509/jmkg.75.4.35
Maraz, A., Eisinger, A., Hende, B., Urbán, R., Paksi, B.,
Kun, B., Kökönyei, G., Griffiths, M. D., & Demetrovics,
Z. (2015). Measuring compulsive buying behaviour:
psychometric validity of three different scales and
prevalence in the general population and in shopping
centres. Psychiatry Research, 225(3), 326–334.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.psychres.2014.11.080
Martinez-Novoa, L. M., & Hodges, N. N. (2016). Beyond
shopaholism: a socio-cultural examination of
compulsive clothing buying behavior. International
Textile and Apparel Association Annual Conference
Proceedings, USA, 73(1), 379-384.
https://doi.org/10.31274/itaa_proceedings-180814-1412

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 039-060

57

58

Alić & Kadrić

Effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand addiction serve as a socially responsible mediator?

McElroy, S. L., Keck, P. E., Jr, Pope, H. G., Jr, Smith, J. M.,
& Strakowski, S. M. (1994). Compulsive buying: a
report of 20 cases. The Journal of clinical
psychiatry, 55(6), 242–248.

Nanda, A. P., Banerji, D., & Singh, N. (2023). Situational
factors of compulsive buying and the well-being
outcomes: what we know and what we need to know.
Journal of Macromarketing, 43(3), 384-402.
https://doi.org/10.1177/02761467231180091

McElroy, S. L., Satlin, A., Pope, H. G., Keck, P. E., &
Hudson, J. I. (1991). Treatment of compulsive shopping
with antidepressants: a report of three cases. Annals of
Clinical Psychiatry, 3(3), 199-204.
https://doi.org/10.3109/10401239109147991

Nielsen. (2016). “Global online consumer confidence”,
Concerns, and Spending Intentions. New York City, NY:
SAD.

Mert, M., & Tengilimoğlu, D. (2023). The mediating role of
FoMO and the moderating role of narcissism in the
impact of social exclusion on compulsive buying: a
cross-cultural study. Psicologia: Reflexão e Crítica, 36,
33.
https://doi.org/10.1186/s41155-023-00274-y

O’Guinn, T. C. & Faber, R. J. (1989). Compulsive buying: a
phenomenological exploration. Journal of Consumer
Research, 16 (2), 147-157.
https://doi.org/10.1086/209204

Mestre-Bach, G., Steward, T., Jiménez-Murcia, S.,
& Fernández-Aranda, F. (2017). Differences and
similarities between compulsive buying and other
addictive behaviors. Current Addiction Reports, 4(3),
228-236.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s40429-017-0153-z
Moon, M. A., Faheem, S., & Farooq, A. (2022). I, me, and
my everything: self-conceptual traits and compulsive
buying behavior. Journal of Retailing and Consumer
Services, 68(C), 103075.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jretconser.2022.103075
Mrad, M. (2018). Brand addiction conceptual development.
Qualitative Market Research: An International Journal,
21(1), 18-38.
https://doi.org/10.1108/QMR-06-2016-0050
Mrad, M., & Cui, C. C. (2020). Comorbidity of compulsive
buying and brand addiction: an examination of two
types of addictive consumption. Journal of Business
Research, 113(4), 399-408.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2019.09.023
Mrad, M., & Cui, C. C. (2017). Brand addiction:
Conceptualization and scale development. European
Journal of Marketing, 51(11/12), 1938-1960.
https://doi.org/10.1108/EJM-10-2016-0571
Mueller, J. E. Mitchell, L. A. Peterson, R. J. Faber, K. J.
Steffen, R. D., et al. (2011). Depression, materialism,
and excessive internet use in relation to compulsive
buying. Comprehensive Psychiatry, 52(4), 420-424.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comppsych.2010.09.001
Mueller, U., Mueller, A., Silbermann, H., Reinecker, S.,
Bleich, J.E., et al., (2008). A randomized, controlled trial
of group cognitive-behavioral therapy for compulsive
buying disorder: posttreatment and 6-month follow-up
results. The Journal of Clinical Psychiatry, 69(7), 11311138.
https://doi.org/10.4088/JCP.v69n0713
Müller, A., Brand, M., Claes, L., Demetrovics, Z., de Zwaan,
M., Fernández-Aranda, F., et al. (2019). Buyingshopping disorder-is there enough evidence to support
its inclusion in ICD-11?. CNS Spectrums, 24(4), 374379.
https://doi.org/10.1017/S1092852918001323.
Müller, A., Mitchell, J.E., & de Zwaan, M. (2015).
Compulsive buying. The American Journal on
Addictions, 24(2), 132-137.
https://doi.org/10.1111/ajad.12111
Myers, D. G. (2000). The Funds, Friends, and Faith of
Happy People. American Psychologist, 55(1), 56-67.
https://doi.org/10.1037/0003-066X.55.1.56

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 039-060

Nunnally, J. C. (1978). Psychometric Theory. 2nd ed. New
York: McGraw-Hill.

Olsen, S. O., Khoi, N. H., & Tuu, H. H. (2022). The ‘wellbeing’ and ‘ill-being’ of online impulsive and compulsive
buying on life satisfaction: the role of self-esteem and
harmony in life. Journal of Macromarketing, 42(1), 128145.
https://doi.org/10.1177/0276146721104
Otero-López, J. M. (2022). What do we know when we
know a compulsive buying person? Looking at now and
ahead. International journal of environmental research
and public health, 19(18), 11232.
https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph191811232
Palan, K. M., Morrow, P. C., & Trapp, A. (2011).
Compulsive buying behavior in college students: the
mediating role of credit card misuse. The Journal of
Marketing Theory and Practice, 19(1): 81-96.
https://doi.org/10.2753/MTP1069-6679190105
Prawitz, A., Garman, E. T., Sorhaindo, B., O’Neill, B., Kim,
J., & Drentea, P. (2006). InCharge Financial
Distress/Financial Well-Being Scale: development,
administration, and score interpretation. Journal of
Financial Counseling and Planning, 17(1), 34-50.
https://doi.org/10.1037/t60365-000
Reimann, M., Castaño, R., Zaichkowsky, J., & Bechara, A.
(2012). How we relate to brands: psychological and
neurophysiological insights into consumer–brand
relationships. Journal of Consumer Psychology, 22(1),
128-142.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcps.2011.11.003
Ridgway, N. M., Kukar‐Kinney, M., & Monroe, K. B. (2008).
An expanded conceptualization and a new measure of
compulsive buying. Journal of Consumer Research,
35(4), 622-639.
https://doi.org/10.1086/591108
Ridgway, N., Kukar-Kinney, M., & Monroe, K. (2006). New
perspectives on compulsive buying: its roots,
measurement and physiology. In: C. Pechmann, & L.
Price (Eds.), Advances in consumer research, vol. 33
(pp. 131-133). San Antonio: Association for Consumer
Research.
Riquelme, I., Roman, S., Cuestas-Diaz, P. J., & Iacobucci,
D. (2019). the dark side of good reputation and loyalty
in online retailing: when trust leads to retaliation through
price unfairness. Journal of Interactive Marketing, 47,
35-52.
http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3425986
Rizzo, C., Sestino, A., Pino, G., Guido, G., Nataraajan, R.,
& Harnish, R. J. (2023). A hierarchical personality
approach toward a fuller understanding of
onychophagia and compulsive buying. Psychological
Reports, 126(3), 1322–1338.
https://doi.org/10.1177/00332941211061696

Alić & Kadrić

Effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand addiction serve as a socially responsible mediator?

Roberts, J. (1998). Compulsive buying among college
students: an investigation of its antecedents,
consequences, and implications for public policy.
Journal of Consumer Affairs, 32(2),295–319.
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1745-6606.1998.tb00411.x
Roberts, J., & Manolis, C. (2000). Baby boomers and
busters: an exploratory investigation of attitudes toward
marketing, advertising, and consumerism. Journal of
Consumer Marketing, 17(6), 481–97.
https://doi.org/10.1108/07363760010349911

Tarka, P., Harnish, R. J., & Babaev, J. (2022). Hedonism,
hedonistic shopping experiences and compulsive
buying tendency: A demographics-based model
approach. Journal of Marketing Theory and Practice,
31(2), 197-222.
https://doi.org/10.1080/10696679.2022.2026791

Rook, D.W. (1987). The buying impulse. Journal of
Consumer Research, 14(2), 189-199.
https://doi.org/10.1086/209105

Weinstein, A., Maraz, A., Griffiths, M. D., Lejoyeux, M., &
Demetrovics, Z. (2016). Chapter 98 - Compulsive
buying – features and characteristics of addiction. In V.
R. Preedy (Ed.), Neuropathology of drug addictions and
substance misuse (pp. 993-1007). Cambridge:
Academic Press.
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-800634-4.00098-6

Rosen, J. C., & Gross, J. (1987). Prevalence of weight
reducing and weight gain in adolescent girls and boys.
Health Psychology, 6(2), 131-147.
https://doi.org/10.1037/0278-6133.6.2.131

Wood, J. T. (2000). Gender and personal relationships.
In C. Hendrick & Hendrick, S. S. (Eds.), Close
Relationships-A Source Book (pp. 301-313). Thousand
Oaks: Sage Publications.

Rosenberg, M. (1965). Society and the adolescent selfimage. Princeton: Princeton University Press.

Workman, L., & Paper, D. (2010). Compulsive buying: a
theoretical framework. Journal of Business Inquiry, 9(1),
89-126.

Rosenberg, M. (1979). Conceiving the self. New York:
Basic Books.
Sarstedt, M., Hair, J. F., Cheah, J. H., Becker, J. M., &
Ringle, C. M. (2019). How to specify, estimate, and
validate higher-order constructs in PLS-SEM.
Australasian Marketing Journal, 27(3), 197-211.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ausmj.2019.05.003

Yamane, T., & Kaneko, S. (2021). Is the younger
generation a driving force toward achieving sustainable
development goals? Survey experiments. Journal of
Cleaner Production, 292, 125932.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2021.125932

Sârghie, M. M. P. (2021). Using social marketing to tackle
compulsive buying. Social Marketing Quarterly, 27(1),
3-12.
https://doi.org/10.1177/1524500420988263

Yurchisin, J., & Johnson, K. K. (2004). Compulsive buying
behavior and its relationship to perceived social status
associated with buying, materialism, self-esteem, and
apparel-product involvement. Family and Consumer
Sciences Research Journal, 32(3), 291-314.
https://doi.org/10.1177/1077727X03261178

Scherhon, C. (1990). The addictive trait in buying behavior.
Journal of Consumer Policy, 13(1), 33-51.
https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00411868

Varadarajan, R. (2015). Strategic marketing, marketing
strategy and market strategy. AMS Review, 5, 78–90.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s13162-015-0073-9

Schlosser, S., Black, D. W., Repertinger, S., & Freet, D.
(1994). Compulsive buying. Demography,
phenomenology, and comorbidity in 46
subjects. General hospital psychiatry, 16(3), 205–212.
https://doi.org/10.1016/0163-8343(94)90103-1

Zadka, Ł., & Olajossy, M. (2016). Compulsive buying in
outline. Psychiatria Polska, 50(1), 153-164.
https://doi.org/10.12740/PP/44010

Shahjehan, A., Qureshi, J. A., Zeb, F., & Saifullah, K.
(2012). The effect of personality on impulsive and
compulsive buying behaviors. African Journal of
business management, 6(6), 2187–94.
https://doi.org/10.5897/AJBM11.2275
Shoham, A., & Brenčič, M. M. (2003). Compulsive buying
behavior. Journal of Consumer Marketing, 20(2), 127138.
https://doi.org/10.1108/07363760310464596
Shulman, T. (2015). Shopaholics anonymous. Retrieved
May, 15, 2023 from:
http://www.shopaholicsanonymous.org/

Zarate, D., Fullwood, L., Prokofieva, M., Griffiths, M. D., &
Stavropoulos, V. (2023). Problematic shopping
behavior: an item response theory examination of the
seven-item Bergen shopping addiction scale.
International Journal of Mental Health and Addiction,
21, 4108–4126.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11469-022-00844-8
Zhao, X., Lynch, J. G., Chen, Q., Jr. (2010). Reconsidering
Baron and Kenny: myths and truths about mediation
analysis. Journal of Consumer Research, 37(2), 197206.
https://doi.org/10.1086/651257

Sirgy, M. J., Lee, D. J., & Yu, G. B. (2020). Shopping-life
balance: towards a unifying framework. Applied
Research in Quality of Life, 15(1), 17-34.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11482-018-9662-8
Sternberg, R. J. (1986). A triangular theory of love.
Psychological Review, 93(2), 119–135.
https://doi.org/10.1037/0033-295X.93.2.119
Tarka, P., Kukar-Kinney, M., & Harnish, R. J. (2022).
Consumers’ personality and compulsive buying
behavior: the role of hedonistic shopping experiences
and gender in mediating-moderating relationships.
Journal of Retailing and Consumer Services, 64,
102802.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jretconser.2021.102802

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 039-060

59

60

Alić & Kadrić

Effects of compulsive buying on debt avoidance and self-esteem: Can brand addiction serve as a socially responsible mediator?

 Correspondence

Adi Alić
University of Sarajevo, School of Economics and Business,
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina
Trg oslobođenja - Alija Izetbegović 1, 71000 Sarajevo, Bosnia
and Herzegovina
E-mail: adi.alic@efsa.unsa.ba

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 039-060

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 061-069
DOI: 10.5937/StraMan2200021A
Received: May 09, 2022
Accepted: June 10, 2022
Published online: September 29, 2022

The impact of corporate social
responsibility on the environmental
performance of large organizations in
Serbia
Marko Aleksić
University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Republic of Serbia
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4488-4472
Nemanja Berber
University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Republic of Serbia
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1433-6416
Maja Strugar Jelača
University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Republic of Serbia
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6707-5942
Radmila Bjekić
University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Republic of Serbia
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7263-8025
Abstract
Background: Modern business operations, which have resulted in a significant growth of major companies,
both those operating within their national boundaries and multinational ones, have contributed to an increased
exploitation of natural resources, environmental pollution, harmful gas emissions, drinking water scarcity,
deforestation and many other negative consequences for the entire environment. This resulted in the emergence
of the concept of CSR, first in large multinationals, which had sufficient funds to address this issue, and, in most
cases, had contributed to environmental pollution.
Purpose: The authors of this paper investigate whether there is a relation between the concept of Corporate
Social Responsibility (CSR) and environmental performance in Serbia.
Study design/methodology/approach: The research was conducted from November 2019 to August 2021 in
large organisations on a sample of 165 companies. The author used Smart PLS software for data processing.
Finding/conclusions: The research results show that the application of the concept of CSR influences
significantly the environmental performance in large organisations in Serbia.
Limitations/future research: The authors only investigated large companies, while the relationship between
CSR and environmental performances in SMEs is a potential for future research.
Keywords
corporate social responsibility, environmental performance, large organizations, PLS-SEM, Serbia

Introduction
The concern of individuals, groups, organisations
and the general public for the environment has
been growing increasingly over time, and,
consequently, resulted in the growth of
environmental protection activities, as the issues of

global warming, ozone layer depletion and
decrease and loss of biodiversity have boosted the
awareness of the necessity to implement
sustainable development patterns that will allow
companies to grow and earn profit without
endangering the environment or diminishing its

62

Aleksić et al.

The impact of corporate social responsibility on the environmental performance of large organizations in Serbia

quality for future generations. (Cianconi, Betrò &
Janiri, 2020). Modern companies implement
specific environmental management systems, since
they provide opportunities and directions for
companies to reduce negative impact of their
business activities on the natural environment
(Zdravković & Peković, 2020).
Public awareness of the impact of the concept
of CSR in companies on the environment has
grown, and consequently, the demands by the
public from companies in their environment.
(Halkos & Nomikos, 2021). This resulted in the
emergence of the concept of CSR, first in large
multinationals, which had sufficient funds to
address this issue, and, in most cases, had
contributed to environmental pollution. In
addition, public awareness of the importance of the
environment and companies endangering grew
rapidly owing to the internet and the media, which
used to be much less accessible to the broad
masses.
Globally successful companies had been using
this approach a decade before multinationals
brought it to Serbia. Application of this concept in
Serbia was initiated owing to foreign companies,
who, arriving to Serbia, continued social
responsibility
practices
they
had
been
implementing in their countries of origin (Aleksić,
Bjekić & Rodić, 2020). The international
companies having started promoting their social
responsibility to the community, environs,
environment etc., public conscience in Serbia
started perceiving a new picture related to this
issue, so that the application of this concept was
initiated in companies located on the territory of
Serbia as well.
The research encompassed 165 large
companies operating on the territory of Serbia. In
this paper, the authors researched the relationship
between the application of CSR and environmental
performance.
The relationship between the dimensions of
CSR and environmental performance was
established using Smart PLS program. Research
results have shown that there is a positive
correlation between environmental performance
and the dimensions of corporate social
responsibility. The paper consists of three parts.
The first part presents an overview of relevant
literature in this area; the second part describes the
applied research methods, and the third segment is
based on the results of the conducted research,
discussion on the results, conclusions and
recommendations for future research.

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 061-069

1. Theoretical background
The concept of corporate social responsibility is a
dynamic category, changing and growing
constantly, so that defining corporate social
responsibility varies, and there is no unified
definition of this concept (Cherian & Pech, 2017).
One of the definitions of corporate social
responsibility is a company’s endeavour to provide
incentives to the community it operates in.
Implementation of the CSR concept is based on
interaction between a company and various
stakeholders
(community,
environment,
employees, customers, suppliers, investors and
many others). The concept of corporate social
responsibility enables organisations to achieve
balance between their economic, social and
environmental objectives (Hopkins, 2005;
Dahlsrud, 2006).
The principal objective that all companies
strive for is to maximise performance and profit,
but, apart from their basic reason for existence,
they should also take account of environmental
protection, bearing in mind the fact that they make
a direct negative impact due to exploitation of
resources, soil and energy, as well as pollution
caused by harmful gas emissions and leakages into
soil, water and air during the production (Ienciu &
Napoca, 2009). Due to increasing business
changes, market and competition growth in the
modern business conditions, as well as growing
customers’ and consumers’ demands, the
introduction of new technologies and raised
awareness of consumers and other individuals
about the importance of environmental protection
have resulted in various activities conducted by
those individuals, groups and organisations and
thus, essentially, forced some companies to take
responsibility and become involved in these
initiatives (Berber, Slavić & Aleksić, 2019).
In addition to economic objectives, a socially
responsible company takes into account
environmental objectives, causing the managers of
such companies to take into account the company’s
environmental performance, measuring it and
managing it appropriately. A company’s
environmental performance represents an
organisation’s commitment and willingness to take
environmental responsibility. (Judge & Douglas,
1998). “The concept of CSR itself has been
modified and re-evaluated over the years, and
many companies are faced with demands for more
comprehensive changes in the domain of their
approach to society and the environment” (Marić,
Berber, Slavić & Aleksić, 2021, p.2).

Aleksić et al.

The impact of corporate social responsibility on the environmental performance of large organizations in Serbia

In companies driven by the concept of
corporate social responsibility, whose human
resources strategy is driven by it, a positive
correlation was established between the human
resources strategy and impact on the growth in the
organisations’
environmental
performance
(Berber, Slavić & Aleksić, 2021).
Application of the concept of corporate social
responsibility has prompted many companies to
change technologies used in the production of their
goods and services, especially if these technologies
contributed to environmental pollution, where
some companies were not content only to reduce
pollution, but proceeded to change their
technologies completely and manufactured green
products such as environmentally safe, recycled
and biodegradable goods, replace operations with
more energy efficient ones, implement efficient
waste management and preservation of cultural
assets (Zhang, Oo, & Lim, 2019; DragičevićRadičević, Stanojević, Milanović, Katanić &
Todosijević-Lazović, 2020).
In view of the business changes that have been
emerging, it is necessary to implement new
business models so that companies achieve
sustainable development and maintain their
competitiveness (Berber et al., 2019). Companies
implementing the concept of corporate social
responsibility guided by environmental protection
and adopting environmental standards gain
prominence with their competitiveness on the
international market, and the consumers awareness
of the importance of environment is greatly
increased (Berber et al., 2019).
Companies conducting activities of importance
for the environment get accepted much faster in
society and the environment they operate in, and
their products penetrate the market raster, gaining
popularity more easily, owing to media stressing
the importance of environmental protection and
informing the public about the companies
implementing CSR and their products (MartínPeña, Díaz-Garrido & Sánchez-López, 2014).
Environmental performance plays an important
part in socially responsible business operations.
Numerous studies have been conducted,
establishing that there is a positive correlation
between corporate social responsibility and
environmental performance of business operation,
and special attention has been paid to pollution
emissions, energy consumption, as well as the
harmful substances and waste companies release
into the environment (Alam, Atif, Chien-Chi &
Soytaş, 2019).

Corporate social responsibility is not only
focussed on stakeholders within organisations;
their focus goes further beyond, encompassing
stakeholders outside organisations as well as
results that are not limited only to financial ones.
This would mean that organisations operating
in accordance with the concept of corporate social
responsibility do not set making profit as the only
objective; their objectives are broader and, in
addition to economic performance, they also attach
importance to others, including the environmental,
which points to a positive correlation between
organisations’ corporate social responsibility and
environmental performance (Aguinis & Glavas,
2019).
Environmentally sustainable, that is, green
supply chain management emerged as a way of
running companies that, in addition to earning
profit as the objective it seeks, has other objectives
as well, such as reducing environmental risks and
impact on improving economic efficiency of an
organisation and its partners (Van Hoek, 1999).
Green supply chain management has enabled
companies to take care of environmental protection
starting from square one, that is, purchase of raw
materials etc. from socially responsible suppliers,
and thus influence their market competitiveness,
especially in a period of ever-growing consumer
pressure for environmental protection. This way,
apart from earning profit, companies also improve
their environmental performance, which provides
them with competitiveness and profitability (Zhu
& Sarkis, 2004). To protect nature and reduce
negative environmental impact, companies have
launched continuous activities meeting relevant
players’ demands regarding the environment. A
strong and well-set-up orientation of corporate
social
responsibility
among
stakeholders,
essentially, motivates companies and organisations
to involve into environmental activities to the
greatest possible extent (Zhu & Sarkis, 2004).
Based on a research study conducted in
Malaysia, encompassing 297 large companies, a
positive correlation was established with
environmental strategy and green innovation,
which definitely influence environmental
performance, that is, influence its growth and thus
act as intermediaries between environmental
performance and corporate social responsibility.
(Kraus, Rehman & Garcia, 2020). A direct impact
on environmental performance was not established
it the above mentioned study; however, studies
conducted pointed to the shortcomings of previous
studies, showing that they had not produced

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 061-069

63

64

Aleksić et al.

The impact of corporate social responsibility on the environmental performance of large organizations in Serbia

relevant data, as they conducted their research
viewing solely financial performance.
In research conducted in Serbia on a sample of
transport companies, the authors argue that the
application of the concept of corporates social
responsibility influences the environment, that is,
that care of the external dimension of CSR is most
directly related to transport business (Žarevac
Bošković, Lakićević & Pantović, 2021).
Although corporate social responsibility
influences
companies’
organisational
performance, some of the studies produced
incomplete results, as their research did not include
non-financial benefits of corporate social
responsibility, such as, for instance, the reputation
that a company acquires owing to its approach to
the environment. If all other aspects were
excluded, viewing financial aspect only, it would
be difficult to establish a direct and positive impact
of corporate social responsibility on an
organisation’s performance.
A research study conducted in Spain
encompassing 133 companies produced results
pointing out that there is a direct positive effect
between corporate social responsibility and impact
on a company’s performance. Reverte, GómezMelero and Cegarra-Navarro (2016) argue that, in
addition to non-financial benefits brought by
corporate social responsibility, the potential
intermediary effect of innovation were omitted
when viewing the relation between corporate social
responsibility and performance. In their research,
these authors supplemented the analyses they
regarded as incomplete by taking into account both
financial and non-financial indicators in their
research, and, additionally, attaching importance
and studying the intermediary role that innovation
can play in the relation between corporate social
responsibility and performance.
Analysing previous studies, which do not take
into account both financial and non-financial
benefits as well as the intermediary role of
innovation, what is noticeable is the importance of
managing the concept of corporate social
responsibility for companies wishing to improve
their environmental performance, build goodwill
and reputation and in influence profitability, thus
pointing to a positive correlation between
corporate social responsibility and impact on the
company’s
reputation
and
profitability
(Khojastehpour & Johns, 2014).
Both in developing countries and Serbia,
application of the concept or corporate social
responsibility started with the advent of

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 061-069

multinationals, which prompted local companies to
adopt the application of this concept (Stojanović,
Mihajlović, Safronova, Kunev & Schulte, 2021).
The spread of this concept in Serbia has led to a
noticeable growth in the environmental
performance of companies applying the same
concept. The following section of the paper
presents research into the relation between the
concept of social corporate responsibility and
environmental performance in large organisations
in Serbia.

2. Research methodology
For the purpose of this research, the authors
conducted field research in large organisations in
Serbia. The research covered the period from
November 2019 to August 2021. The total number
of companies participating in the research was 165,
that is, one questionnaire per company. The survey
was conducted on management teams of large
companies, that is, the questions were answered
solely by managerial staff members familiar with
the companies’ overall operations, who had valid
information and were authorized to access such
data. The questionnaire is structured in three parts.
The first section of the questionnaire is based on
basic information about the company, such as total
employee count (total numbers of male and female
employees), which industry the company is
operating in, which sector (public or private) it
belongs to, which markets it serves, etc. The
second section of the questionnaire is related to the
dimensions of corporate social responsibility by
stakeholders’ approach, and is divided into six
groups of questions. The first segment (consisting
of four questions labelled: Comm1, Comm2,
Comm3 and Comm4) is related to responsibility to
the community, followed by responsibility to the
environment (consisting of four questions labelled
Envi1, Envi2, Envi3 and Envi4). Questions and
labels related to responsibility to employees are
HRM1, HRM2, HRM3 and HRM4, while
responsibility to investors contains questions
labelled Invest1, Invest2, Invest3 and Invest4. The
fifth segment is related to responsibility to
suppliers and consists of five questions labelled
Supp1, Supp2, Supp3, Supp4 and Supp5, whereas
the sixth segment, related to responsibility to
clients, contains four questions labelled Cust1,
Cust2, Cust3 and Cust4. The last, third section of
the questionnaire is based on the outcomes of CSO,
that is, the organisation’s environmental
performance. The questions and labels in the
questionnaire are as follows: “Has the organisation

Aleksić et al.

The impact of corporate social responsibility on the environmental performance of large organizations in Serbia

reduced the amounts and emissions of pollutants?”
(EnvPerf1); “Has the organisation reduced the
consumption of dangerous, harmful and toxic
substances?” (EnvPerf2); “Has the organisation
reduced the frequency of environmental
incidents?” (EnvPerf3), “Has the organisation
reduced energy consumption?” (EnvPerf4) “Has
the organisation improved its environmental
situation?” (EnvPerf5). All questions in the
questionnaire are structured in the form of closedended questions on a five-point Likert scale (1 –
strongly disagree; 2 – disagree; 3 – neither agree
nor disagree; 4 – agree; 5 – strongly agree). The
questionnaire that was created based on previous
studies (Rettab, Brik & Mellahi, 2009; Turker,
2009; Xu & Peng, 2018).
As stated above, the total number of large
organisations was 165. Given that a total of 566
companies with 250 or more employees operate on
the territory of Serbia, representativeness of the
sample is justified, amounting to 29.15% of the
basic set (Popović, 2020).

Based on the theoretical research presented
above and research methodology, the authors
propose the hypothesis:
H1: Corporate social responsibility influences
positively environmental performance in large
organisations in Serbia.

3. Results and discussion
The authors performed an internal consistency
analysis in order to verify the sample. Internal
consistency was verified by calculating Cronbach's
Alpha, Composite reliability (CR) and Average
variance extracted (AVE) for each construct of the
model (Grubor, Berber, Aleksić & Bjekić, 2020;
Hair, Risher, Sarstedt & Ringle, 2019; Bjekić,
Strugar-Jelača, Berber, & Aleksić, 2021). Variable
with values under 0.708 were excluded before the
analysis. In this paper, the authors excluded
indicators HRM1, Invest3, Cust3 and Cust4. Based
on the above, the authors presented the model in
Figure 1.

Figure 1 Path coefficient estimates
Source: the authors' research

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 061-069

65

66

Aleksić et al.

The impact of corporate social responsibility on the environmental performance of large organizations in Serbia

Table 1 Indicator reliability and construct reliability and
validity
Cronbach's
Composite
AVE
Alpha
Reliability
Suppliers
0.891
0.920
0.698
Environment
0.905
0.933
0.777
HRM
0.890
0.925
0.755
Community
0.909
0.936
0.786
Investors
0.923
0.951
0.866
Customers
0.794
0.907
0.829
Env. perf
0.951
0.963
0.838
Source: the authors' calculation

Table 1 presents testing results related to
internal consistency in order to perform an
evaluation of questionnaire validity. Internal
consistency was verified by calculating Cronbach's
Alpha, Composite Reliability (CR) and Average
Variance Extracted (AVE) for each construct of the
model.
Based on the result obtained in Table 1, it can
be concluded that Cronbach's Alpha values range
from 0.890 to 0.951. According to Hair et al.
(2017), acceptability threshold is considered to be
0.7. The indicator related to composite validity is
one of the reliability indicators, as different factor
loadings are taken for each item. Based on the
values shown in Table 1, composite reliability
Table 2 Discriminant Validity: Heterotrait-monotrait (HTMT)
Suppliers
Env perf
Environment
Suppliers
Env perf
0.513
Environment
0.544
0.797
HRM
0.647
0.624
0.700
Community
0.578
0.583
0.760
Investors
0.582
0.488
0.558
Customers
0.609
0.470
0.637

Table 3 shows results of Variance Increase
Factor (VIF). It can be concluded based on the
obtained results that there is no multicollinearity
problem between formative constructs.
Table 3 Collinearity Statistics
VIF
Suppliers

1.943

Environment

2.443

HRM

2.076

Community

2.339

Investors

1.672

Customers

1.639
Source: the authors' calculation

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 061-069

ranges 0.907 from to 0.963. Based on the above
stated it can be concluded that Composite
Reliability criterion is met, given that acceptability
threshold is 0.7 (Hair, Hunt, Ringle & Sarstedt,
2017). The last criterion in Table 1 is the analysis
of Average Variance Extracted (AVE) that is,
expresses what percentage of variance a latent
variable in the structural model shares with other
variables (Matić, 2014, p. 219). Measurement
values in the paper range from 0.698 to 0.866.
Based on the above stated, as the acceptability
threshold of AVE is 0.5 (Hair et al., 2017, p. 118),
it can be concluded that convergent validity is met
for both stated construct.
The following presented criterion represents
Discriminatory Validity by means of Heterotraitmonotrait ratio of correlations (HTMT) (Ab
Hamid, Sami & Sidek, 2017, p. 2). HTMT is an
indicator showing that all the ratio values below 0.9
are acceptable, that is, it shows that the defined
components are sufficiently mutually different and
present different phenomena (Hair et al., 2019).
Results shown in Table 2 show that all values
below are 0.9. Based on the stated data, it can be
concluded that the Discriminatory Validity
criterion by means of HTMT criterion is fully met.
HRM

Community

0.669
0.433
0.505

0.582
0.596

Investors

Customers

0.516
Source: the authors' calculation

The following section of testing relates to the
application of the concept of CSR and
environmental performance in large organisations
in Serbia. Based on the determination quotient
(R2), it can be concluded that 0.494, that is, 49.4%
of variance of the dependent variable
(environmental performance) is accounted for by
the independent latent variable (CSR).
Table 4 Mean, Standard Deviation, T-statistics, P-values
Origin Samp
Standa
T
p
al
le
rd
statisti value
Sampl mean
Deviati
cs
s
e
(M)
on
CSR->
Environ
H1
mental
0.703
0.697
0.076
9.286
0.000
perform
ance
Source: the authors' calculation

Aleksić et al.

The impact of corporate social responsibility on the environmental performance of large organizations in Serbia

Results shown in Table 4 show that there is a
positive statistically significant relation between
corporate social responsibility and environmental
performance (T=9.286; p= 0.000) in large
organisations in Serbia. Based on the above, the
results of this study are in the line with the result of
Reverte et al. (2016), who found that corporate
social responsibility positively affects the
environmental performance of the organization on
a sample of 133 companies in Spain. Also, the
research conducted in China has shown that the
application of the CSR concept has a positive
impact on the community, employees and the
environment as the dimensions of CSR (Xu &
Peng, 2018; Grubor et al., 2020; Anser, Yousaf,
Majid & Yasir, 2020). Also, the author Suganthi
(2020) proved in his research that the adoption of
CSR initiatives has significant positive effects on
the market, costs and environmental performance.
Based on all of the above, it can be concluded that
the application of the concept of CSR in large
organizations in the Republic of Serbia has
significant positive effects on environmental
performance.

Conclusion
Globalisation on the world market, increase in the
use of all natural resource, opening large
companies whose harmful gas emissions, waste
release and deposits endanger the environment
they operate in have resulted in severe permanent
and negative consequences for the environment,
causing the greenhouse effect, global warming,
decreased biodiversity, various climate changes,
and also deteriorated health condition of the
population due to highly harmful air polluted by
harmful substance emissions. All of these effects
have prompted individuals, groups, organisations
and companies to start addressing these issues
seriously and taking required actions to reduce the
harmful effects on the environment by controlling
or eliminating actions that cause them. Many
companies have started taking preventive measures
to reduce negative effects on the environment, and
many of the measures have developed into
standards.
Some companies have been allocating
significant funds for environmental protection, and
thereby achieved popularity very quickly, given
the consumers awareness of environmental
protection has been growing increasingly. Soon,
corporate social responsibility as a concept started
spreading worldwide, especially in globally
renowned companies.

The practical implications of the research are
based on empirical evidence showing that there is
a positive correlation between the concept of CSR
and environmental performance in Serbia. The
growing application of corporate social
responsibility contributes to the level of
companies’ environmental performance and
sustainability. Companies should carefully
investigate CSR activities and implement them in
order to make their business more responsible, and
to support their environmental performances.
Taking into account the possibilities provided
by the application of the concept of CSR and its
impact on environmental performance, it can be
concluded that this model and their mutual impact
can provide a positive long-term effect on
companies in the Republic of Serbia to improve
business.

Acknowledgement
This research received a financial grant from the
Provincial Secretariat for Higher Education and
Scientific Research of Autonomous Province of
Vojvodina, the Republic of Serbia, during the
project “Financial, marketing and management
aspects of energy efficiency in the function of
sustainable development of AP Vojvodina”
(number: 142-451-2537/2021).

References
Ab Hamid, M. R., Sami, W., & Sidek, M. M. (2017).
Discriminant validity assessment: use of Fornell &
Larcker criterion versus HTMT criterion. Journal of
Physics: Conference Series, 890 (1), 012163.
https://doi:10.1088/1742-6596/890/1/012163
Aguinis, H., & Glavas, A. (2019). On corporate social
responsibility, sensemaking, and the search for
meaningfulness through work. Journal of Management,
45(3), 1057-1086.
https://doi.org/10.1177%2F0149206317691575
Alam, M. S., Atif, M., Chien-Chi, C., & Soytaş, U. (2019).
Does corporate R&D investment affect firm
environmental performance? Evidence from G-6
countries. Energy Economics, 78, 401-411.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eneco.2018.11.031
Aleksić, M. Bjekić, R., & Rodić, M. (2020) Application of
corporate social responsibility and companies
environmental performances. Journal of Engineering
Management and Competitiveness, 10(2), 81-89.
https://doi.org/10.5937/jemc2002081A
Anser, M. K., Yousaf, Z., Majid, A., & Yasir, M. (2020). Does
corporate social responsibility commitment and
participation predict environmental and social
performance?. Corporate Social Responsibility and
Environmental Management, 27(6), 2578-2587.
https://doi.org/10.1002/csr.1977

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 061-069

67

68

Aleksić et al.

The impact of corporate social responsibility on the environmental performance of large organizations in Serbia

Berber, N., Slavić, A., Aleksić, M. (2021). Corporate social
responsibility in contemporary organizations: evidence
from Serbian processing industry. Ekonomske teme,
59(2), 227-241.
https://doi.org/10.2478/ethemes-2021-0013

Khojastehpour, M., & Johns, R. (2014). The effect of
environmental CSR issues on corporate/brand
reputation and corporate profitability. European
Business Review, 26(4), 330-339.
https://doi.org/10.1108/EBR-03-2014-0029

Berber, N., Slavić, A., Aleksić, M., (2019). The relationship
between corporate social responsibility and corporate
governance. Ekonomika, 65(3), 1-12.
https://doi.org/10.5937/ekonomika1903001B

Kraus, S., Rehman, S. U., & García, F. J. S. (2020).
Corporate social responsibility and environmental
performance: the mediating role of environmental
strategy and green innovation. Technological
Forecasting and Social Change, 160, 120262.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2020.120262

Bjekić, R., Strugar-Jelača, M. , Berber, N., & Aleksić, M.
(2021). Factors affecting entrepreneurial intentions of
faculty students. Management: Journal of Sustainable
Business and Management Solutions in Emerging
Economies, 26(2), 1-14.
https://10.7595/management.fon.2020.0024
Cherian, J., & Pech, R. (2017). The impact of corporate
social responsibility on the workforce of selected
business firms in the United Arab Emirates: a nascent
economy. Sustainability, 9(11), 2-3.
https://doi.org/10.3390/su9112077
Cianconi, P., Betrò, S., & Janiri, L. (2020). The impact of
climate change on mental health: a systematic
descriptive review. Frontiers in Psychiatry, 11, 74.
https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyt.2020.00074

Marić, S., Berber, N., Slavić, A., & Aleksić, M. (2021). The
mediating role of employee commitment in the
relationship between corporate social responsibility and
firm performance in Serbia. SAGE Open, 11(3), 1-17.
https://doi.org/10.1177%2F21582440211037668
Martín-Peña, M. L., Díaz-Garrido, E., & Sánchez-López, J.
M. (2014). Analysis of benefits and difficulties
associated with firms' Environmental Management
Systems: the case of the Spanish automotive industry.
Journal of Cleaner Production, 70, 220-230.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2014.01.085
Matić, D. (2014). Uticaj organizacione klime i liderstva na
prenošenje znanja između zaposlenih u
organizaciji (Nepublikovana doktorska disertacija).
Fakultet tehničkih nauka, Novi Sad.

Dahlsrud, A. (2006). How corporate social responsibility is
defined: an analysis of 37 definitions. Corporate Social
Responsibility and Environmental Management, 15, 1–
13.
https://doi.org/10.1002/csr.132

Popović, D. (2020). Enterprises in the Republic of Serbia by
size, 2019 [Unpublished paper]. Statistical Office of the
Republic of Serbia.

Dragičević-Radičević, T., Stanojević, L., Milanović, V.,
Katanić, Z., & Todosijević-Lazović, S. (2020). Corporate
social responsibility and new technologies in food
industry, the public perception: case study of Vojvodina.
Ekonomika poljoprivrede, 67(2), 329-343.
https://doi.org/10.5937/ekoPolj2002329D

Rettab, B., Brik, A. B., & Mellahi, K. (2009). A study of
management perceptions of the impact of corporate
social responsibility on organisational performance in
emerging economies: the case of Dubai. Journal of
Business Ethics, 89(3), 371-390.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-008-0005-9

Grubor, A., Berber, N., Aleksić, M., & Bjekić, R. (2020). The
influence of corporate social responsibility on
organizational performance: a research in AP
Vojvodina. Anali Ekonomskog fakulteta u Subotici, (43),
3-13.
https://doi.org/10.5937/AnEkSub2001003G

Reverte, C., Gomez-Melero, E., & Cegarra-Navarro, J. G.
(2016). The influence of corporate social responsibility
practices on organizational performance: evidence from
eco-responsible Spanish firms. Journal of Cleaner
Production, 112, 2870-2884.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2015.09.128

Hair, J. F., Risher, J. J., Sarstedt, M., & Ringle, C. M.
(2019). When to use and how to report the results of
PLS-SEM. European business review, 31(1), 2-24.
https://doi.org/10.1108/EBR-11-2018-0203

Stojanović, A., Mihajlović, I., Safronova, N. B., Kunev, S., &
Schulte, P. (2021). The multi-criteria analysis of
corporate social responsibility: a comparative study of
Russia, Bulgaria and Serbia. Journal of Management &
Organization, 1-21.
https://doi.org/10.1017/jmo.2020.40

Hair, J., Hunt, T., Ringle, C. & Sarstedt M. (2017). A primer
on partial least squares structural equation modeling
(PLS-SEM). (Second Edition) Los Angeles: Sage.
Halkos, G., & Nomikos, S. (2021). Corporate social
responsibility: Trends in global reporting initiative
standards. Economic Analysis and Policy, 69, 106-117.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eap.2020.11.008
Hopkins, M. (2005). Measurement of corporate social
responsibility. International Journal of Management and
Decision Making, 6(3-4), 213-231.
https://doi.org/10.1504/IJMDM.2005.006549
Ienciu, I. A., & Napoca, C. N. (2009). Environmental
performance versus economic performance.
International Journal of Business Research, 9(5),125131.
Judge, W. Q., & Douglas, T. J. (1998). Performance
implications of incorporating natural environmental
issues into the strategic planning process: An empirical
assessment. Journal of Management Studies, 35(2),
241-262.
https://doi.org/10.1111/1467-6486.00092

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 061-069

Suganthi, L. (2020). Investigating the relationship between
corporate social responsibility and market, cost and
environmental performance for sustainable
business. South African Journal of Business
Management, 51(1), 1-13.
https://doi.org/10.4102/sajbm.v51i1.1630
Turker, D. (2009). Measuring corporate social responsibility:
a scale development study. Journal of Business Ethics,
85(4), 411–427.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-008-9780-6
Van Hoek, R. I. (1999). From reversed logistics to green
supply chains. Supply Chain Management: An
International Journal, 28-33.
https://doi.org/10.1108/13598549910279576
Xu, Y., & Peng, Q. (2018). An empirical study on the
relationship between green supplier development and
firm performance. American Journal of Industrial and
Business Management, 8, 930-945.
https://doi.org/10.4236/ajibm.2018.84064

Aleksić et al.

The impact of corporate social responsibility on the environmental performance of large organizations in Serbia

Žarevac Bošković, M., Lakićević, M., & Pantović, D. (2021).
Promotion of socially responsible business in transport
companies in Serbia. Anali Ekonomskog Fakulteta u
Subotici, 57(45), 27-40.
https://doi.org/10.5937/AnEkSub2145027Z
Zdravković, S., & Peković, J. (2020). Analiza faktora koji
utiču na izbor zelenog hotela od strane turista.
Menadžment u hotelijerstvu i turizmu, 8(1), 69-78.
https://doi.org/10.5937/menhottur2001069Z

Zhu, Q., & Sarkis, J. (2004). Relationships between
operational practices and performance among early
adopters of green supply chain management practices
in Chinese manufacturing enterprises. Journal of
Operation Management, 22(3), 265-289.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jom.2004.01.005

Zhang, Q., Oo, B. L., & Lim, B. T. H. (2019). Drivers,
motivations, and barriers to the implementation of
corporate social responsibility practices by construction
enterprises: a review. Journal of Cleaner Production,
210, 563-584.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.11.050
 Correspondence

Nemanja Berber
University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica
Segedinski put 9-11, 24000, Subotica, Republic of Serbia
E-mail: nemanja.berber@ef.uns.ac.rs

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 061-069

69

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 070-081
DOI: 10.5937/StraMan2300062A
Received: September 27, 2023
Revised: November 22, 2023
December 08, 2023
Accepted: December 11, 2023
Published online: January 30, 2024

Future-shaping themes: digital age
foresight in Turkish university strategic
plans
Oğuzhan Aytar
Karamanaoglu Mehmetbey University, Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences, Karaman, Turkey
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3799-0952
Rukiye Arslan
Karamanaoglu Mehmetbey University, Institute of Social Sciences, Karaman, Turkey
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1681-3394
Abstract
Background: Universities affect their communities and ecosystems both directly and indirectly. The strategic
plans of all Turkish universities with Higher Education Council accreditation were thoroughly examined within
this context. An ecosystem where digital technologies are used more efficiently and extensively is necessary for
the ideal of a more sustainable environment and a world with happy people.
Purpose: This study’s main aim was to discover how universities in Türkiye predict the digital age via the
emphasis they place on digital themes in their future plans.
Study design/methodology/approach: The content analysis technique utilised within the scope of document
analysis was chosen as the best method to satisfy this study's objectives.
Findings/conclusions: The study found five main themes regarding the future of higher education based on
codes obtained from university strategic plans. Digital transformation, digital campus, digital education, digital
infrastructure, and future-focused units were these themes. We analysed the content of these five areas in
connection with four types of universities around the country to see if there was a significant difference in attitude
towards the digital age. Only future-focused units significantly distinguished these four types of universities, it
was found.
Limitations/future research: The research primarily examined the digital age themes that are evident in the
strategic plans of universities. Academic studies for future research may involve an examination of the content
of strategic plans in relation with different themes and categorizations. The collected results might be subjected
to comparisons in order to assess the effectiveness of strategic plans.
Keywords
strategic plans, universities, digital age, digital transformation, content analysis

Introduction
Companies, public institutions, health institutions,
and universities must reorganise and take positions
in response to the world’s global technological
transformation (Fukuda, 2020). Higher education
institutions have repositioned themselves and
reconsidered their goals in light of the notion that
the only way to survive is to acquire the capacity
for environmental adaptation (Abad-Segura,
González-Zamar, Infante-Moro & Ruipérez
García, 2020; Murphy & Costa, 2019). During this

time, universities, academics, and students are
contemplating how to make better use of the
opportunities they have (Taşkıran, 2017). In
accordance with the expectations and needs of
stakeholders, they are attempting to create a digital
ecosystem and develop a variety of solutions in this
context by employing technological approaches
rather than conventional ones (Aavik, 2019;
Sandkuhl & Lehmann, 2017). Future higher
education will require more than the
implementation of the current trend of digitising
academic materials. In addition, it is crucial to

Aytar & Arslan

Future-shaping themes: digital age foresight in Turkish university strategic plans

establish a technological infrastructure capable of
meeting future demands.
There are direct and indirect effects of
universities on the communities and environments
in which they are situated. They have a tremendous
capacity to contribute to the cultural, scientific, and
economic growth of the societies in which they
operate (Hanssen & Solvoll, 2015; Schoellman &
Smirnyagin, 2021; Taebi, Hoven & Bird, 2019). It
has been noted that countries with the most
successful universities in the world also enjoy
social and economic prosperity (Lukovics & Zuti,
2017). The ecosystem of higher education is
evolving and changing. In light of recent
advancements in sectors such as computing,
networking, artificial intelligence, and virtual
realities, educational technologies continue to
evolve and advance at a rapid rate (Bonfield,
Salter, Longmuir, Benson & Adachi, 2020;
Cheung, Kwok, Phusavat & Yang, 2021).
The variables that cause change in higher
education can be categorised into three broad
groups: global, national, and institutional (Odabaşı,
2006). The diffusion and utilisation effect of
technology places global norms and practises on
the agenda and further accelerates the shift. The
growing potential of internet technology in
particular offers new aspects to educational
processes. To professionalise schools of the future,
contemporary higher education institutions place a
great emphasis on strategic planning (Fumasoli,
Barbato & Turri, 2020; Mampaey, Huisman &
Seeber, 2015). The extent of an institution’s
understanding significance of strategic planning as
reflected in digital publications, compared to
traditional official explanations, is viewed as a
fascinating topic of inquiry. The main goal of the
present research was to establish how institutions
of higher education interpret digital age forecasts
and how they prioritise digital subjects in their
future plans.
This study aimed to determine both how
universities in Türkiye reference elements of the
digital age and what their future intentions for these
elements are. In this regard, the strategic plans of
all universities in Türkiye were evaluated in terms
of digital age topics mentioned. The focus was on
the digitalization features and components that
universities emphasised in their strategic plans, as
well as the perspective of the digital age taken
according to the type of university. The foresight
of universities and the viewpoints of their
graduates have the power to shape the
environment. Universities, which are the most

significant elements of Turkey’s higher education
system, have the power to help steer the process of
digitisation.

1. Digital age ecosystem
The current age, in which the social, economic, and
cultural world changes its dimensions by becoming
virtual as a result of the Internet, is known as the
digital age (Saykili, 2019). It is observed that this
age is founded on different living principles from
previous eras, and its principles are heavily
influenced by the Internet and an ever-proliferating
information technology environment (Ismagilova,
Hughes, Dwivedi & Raman, 2019; Levin &
Mamlok, 2021; Sharma & Behl, 2023). With the
so-called knowledge economy – the most
accessible, most generated, most stored, and most
valued element of this age – the role of information
in human life has expanded (Erceg & Zoranović,
2022; Karabulut, 2015; Sillence, Dawson,
McKellar & Neave, 2022).
Integration of digital transformations from
technologies such as the Internet of Things (IoT),
artificial intelligence (AI), and robotics technology
inspire fundamentally new approaches in both
public and private sectors and their operations
(Newman, Mintrom & O'Neill, 2022).
Technologies involved in education processes in
our digital age, including cloud computing,
massive open online courses, games and
gamification, virtual reality, and mobile
technology are cited as forces that can expedite
business life (Hashim, 2018). Therefore, like in
other organisations, digitalisation has become one
of the most important priorities of higher education
institutions (Moldagali, Sultanova, Akhtayeva,
Suleimenova & Akimbekova, 2022; Kuzu, 2020).
These institutions can help lead the revolution that
is occurring in our digital age due to their unique
characteristics. Higher education institutions must
arguably take on more responsibility as a result of
this goal and adopt a far more consistent and
forward-looking outlook.
With their assets and intellectual resources,
universities are seen to have a significant potential
to digitally transform (Rof, Bikfalvi & Marquès,
2020). Peer teaching material and technological
advancements offer tremendous chances and
possibilities. In the light of the prospects presented
by the future and the technology available now, it
is evident that the digital transformation of higher
education institutions is inevitable (Kuzu, 2020;
Parlak, 2017). This transformation presents
opportunities for universities and academics to
STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 070-081

71

72

Aytar & Arslan

Future-shaping themes: digital age foresight in Turkish university strategic plans

provide more effective and productive education
than in times prior (Taşkıran, 2017).

2. Strategic plan phenomenon
In addition to being a mystery for everyone, the
future is a phenomenon that necessitates accurate
forecasts that evaluate new opportunities for future
success. A strategy’s primary objective is to
contribute analytically to an accurate estimation
procedure. Strategy is the process of occupying a
unique position in which various combinations are
attempted along an axis of being distinct (Drucker,
1996; Porter, 1996; Huang & Rust, 2021). The
word strategy has entered the literature of business
and other sciences from both its Greek origin and
military literature (Davies, 2000). Due to the
growth of the American economy, particularly
after the Second World War, strategizing has
become a principal action. Chandler (1969) noted
that there are numerous duties and levels in
administrative management procedures pertaining
to strategy, and that there are various management
options. Consequently, the objective of strategic
plans is to raise organisational performance to
higher, and measurable levels (George, Walker &
Monster, 2019). Due to the rising complexity of the
global trade environment, modern firms have
begun to embrace strategic management as the
safest and most scientific method for
understanding environments (Wheelen, Hunger,
Hoffman & Bamford, 2015).
The notion of strategic planning was created in
the mid-1960s in response to conventional ways of
identifying new approaches (Whittington, 2019). It
was initially conceptualised in such a way that it
could play an essential role in the planning and
acceleration of an organisation. Strategic planning
refers to the process of making future decisions
based on a logical and analytical examination of an
external environment (Saruhan & Yıldız, 2017).
Strategic plans are one of the most functional and
preferred management tools for organisational
continuity today (Herbane, 2019; Wolf & Floyd,
2017). Prior to determining a strategic plan, the
strategic status of an institution and the selection of
to-be-implemented new activities must be defined.
Strategic planning is often a state- and nation-wide
endeavour, not merely an activity for a single
institution (Zagame, 1993). Strategic planning is a
process that describes the what, why, and where of
a company's future endeavours. In other words, the
process determines what the organisation's primary
activities will be and which of the organisation's
primary policies will be followed in carrying out
STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 070-081

these tasks (Şimşek & Çelik, 2016). Moreover,
strategic planning is the process of making
decisions in a methodical manner, based on the
most up-to-date information about the situations
that might be encountered in the future, while
assuming risks in the current situation; it is a
continuous operation of comparing outcomes of
decisions made with expectations through rules
and feedback (Bryson, 1988).
The significance of strategic planning at
universities has been heightened due to various
factors, including global public policies, the
process of globalisation, advancements in
technology, changes in the working environment,
reduced public funding, and the influence of
students on the higher education system. The
increasing emphasis on the quality agenda in
higher education, which centres on the utilisation
of quantitative performance indicators and
institutional rankings, necessitates that institutions
revise their methods to plan development and
implementation (Horner, Jayawarna, Giordano &
Jones, 2019; Shah, 2013).

3. Method
For our focus on the digital age, universities were
selected both because their strategic plans were
available to view and because of the leadership role
they play in shaping modern societies. The full
count approach, which enables an evaluation of all
units in a population, was employed in the process
of defining our sample in this study. With this
framework, we conducted an in-depth examination
of the strategic plans of all Turkish universities
accredited with the Higher Education Council. One
hundred and ninety-five out of 212 universities in
Turkey have developed individual institutional
strategic plans. These 195 universities' strategic
plans were analysed in this study.
The aim of this study was to examine the
strategic plans of universities in Turkey in terms of
the digital age themes addressed therein, which
would allow us to make a comparative analysis
between predetermined groups. In this context, a
series of important digital themes from the
strategic plans were revealed, and we investigated
whether there was a difference between the
determined groups. The content analysis technique
carried out within the scope of document analysis
was used as an appropriate method to serve this
study’s purposes. A content analysis technique can
generally deal with written documents,
photographs, sound recordings, and different
communication symbols in human communication

Aytar & Arslan

Future-shaping themes: digital age foresight in Turkish university strategic plans

forms (Bal, 2013; Lune & Berg, 2017; Renz,
Carrington & Badger, 2018).
Content analysis refers to the organisation of
information into categories within the scope of the
basic questions of an empirical investigation; it is a
research technique that aims to capture objective
and regular information, usually drawn from
textual artefacts (Bowen, 2009; Kıral, 2020). In
addition, although there are various definitions of
content analysis (Creswell, 2007), there are two
notable issues that all definitions emphasise: The
method benefits from “systematic” and “objective”
features (Koçak & Arun, 2006). Microsoft Excel
and NVivo programmes were utilised throughout
the study's scope to code the universities’ strategic
plans, define the groups, and analyse the data.
3.1. Research process

In order to both identify the concepts that hold
particular meanings from the texts and develop
themes that explain these notions holistically, an
inductive approach was used. In this framework,
each university's strategic plan was concentrated
on the future and future-related themes, and the
content of the documents’ titles was analysed, too.
The concepts linked with the future were identified
in the contents of each document’s title, and these
concepts were examined and highlighted
throughout the entire strategic plan. Each notion
was coded uniquely for each university, and the
motifs expressing the codes were determined. In
this procedure, the codes obtained for the digital
age aspects relevant to the future forecast in all
university strategic plans and the themes that
described these codes holistically were determined.
Figure 1 shows the procedure used in this situation.
-Identify research questions
-Identify the field to be examined

-Determine the categories

-Collect the data
-Analyse the data
Figure 1 The content analysis process
Source: Adapted from Aytar, 2022; Aytar, 2019; Chun, 2017; Harris,
2001; Krippendorff, 2018; Popping, 2000; Weber, 1990.

3.1.1. Identify research questions

To ensure the validity of our research findings, the
first step in our content analysis process was the

determination of the study topic and research
questions. At this stage, the basic and related
questions that both suited the study's objective and
would aid the discovery of key phenomena were
required. In general, strategic plans exhibit
longitudinal coherence by reflecting the
organisation's past, current status, and future
vision. The concepts found within the study's scope
and the themes generated by these concepts were
designed to allow for multiple analyses of collected
data. The following study design-related research
questions were posed:
Q1: Which future-related concepts (code) and
themes are included in the strategic plans of
universities within the context of the digital age?
Q2: Which concepts (code) comprise which
content of the themes included in the strategic
plans of universities within the context of the
digital age?
Q3: Which specific units are integrated in the
strategic plans of universities within the context of
the digital age?
Q4: Do the concepts (code) and themes related
to the digital age that universities specify in their
strategic plans show any difference or similarity in
terms of predetermined university groups?
Answers to these questions were to be found
during the analysis of collected data, and our
analysis also included defining the overall vision
for the future of universities in Turkey as well as
the potential of universities’ strategic plans to
accurately forecast the digital age.
3.1.2. Identifying the field to be examined

A strategic plan is a formal commitment that
outlines both the present position of an institution
under specific conditions and their future actions.
The plan's structure and direction are heavily
dependent on individual managers. The present
research focused on the strategic plans of all
Turkish universities in its higher education system.
In this framework, the universities’ publicly shared
strategic plans were examined. University strategic
plans are public pledges in which the current
situation and future plans are outlined in detail.
This research specifically focused on the digital
age topics in the strategic plans of Turkish
universities.
Turkey has 208 universities, 129 of which are
state universities and 79 are educational
foundations. It was established that 195 of these
universities had an up-to-date strategic plan, and
analyses were conducted on these strategic plans.
Again, strategic planning is a component of
STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 070-081

73

74

Aytar & Arslan

Future-shaping themes: digital age foresight in Turkish university strategic plans

strategic management. Long-term planning serves
as the foundation of strategic planning. It
comprises two fundamental components: The term
“strategic” is synonymous with “of great
significance” for the future (Nickols, 2016). Longterm planning relates to both far-off and long-term
issues. The term planning is a top managerial
function that attempts to determine the preferred
means for achieving a business's desired objective.
As per the scope of this study, reference was
made to the publicly available strategic plans of all
Turkish universities engaged in education and
training. Current university-wide strategic plans
were the focus of the investigation of available
resources. These materials were collected both
from university strategy development departments
and official university websites.

universities, and foundation research universities.
3.1.4. Data collection and analysis

To find answers to the questions presented at the
outset of our research process, concepts relevant to
future plans were scanned for in each strategic
plan, and the findings of these scans were
tabulated.
State Universities
Foundation Universities
Research Universities
Entrepreneurial and Innovative
Universities

3.1.3. Determine the categories

The strategic plans investigated within the scope of
this study were categorised using the websites of
Higher Education Council (YOK, 2021) and
Scientific and Technological Research Council of
Turkey (TUBITAK, 2021). The data of state
universities and foundation universities were
gathered from the YOK website, and the data of
research universities selected annually by YOK are
discussed. The data acquired from YOK for this
study are from the year 2021. On the other hand,
the
TUBITAK (2021)
annual
index
of
entrepreneurial and innovative universities was
queried.
This study also made use of the 2021
Entrepreneurial and innovative university index.
All universities in Turkey with a strategic plan
were analysed, and comparisons were made
between state universities, foundation universities,
entrepreneurial
and
innovative
research

Figure 2 University Groups
Sources: TUBITAK, 2021; YOK, 2021

The primary objective of this procedure was to
determine which themes were emphasised in
universities’ strategic plans. As a result of our
scans, concepts were categorised and themes
identified. The aforementioned concepts and
themes were organised in Table 1 by matching
each code with its proper theme, which was
validated by two social scientists and two
information and technology (IT) scientists, in
addition to the researchers. This method, known as
Kappa analysis, is used to examine the reliability
of qualitative research procedures; the focus of
Kappa analysis is to determine the similarity of
observation results from multiple investigators
assessing the same subject (Bıkmaz Bilgen &
Doğan, 2017; Ertem Vehid & Eral, 2014).

Table 1 Digital age themes and codes in university strategic plans

Concepts (Codes)
Society 5.0, Industry 4.0, digital content, digital environment, digital resources, digital support,
digital attendance, digital literacy, advanced technology, innovation, nanotechnology, new
technology
smart city, smart building, smart campus, smart class, smart class charts, smart access, smart
transport, mobile technology, smart systems
e-learning, e-application, e library, e-book, e-journal, virtual class, virtual reality, web-based
training, web portal, information technologies, software
technology infrastructure, network infrastructure, artificial intelligence, cyber security systems,
wireless, cloud computing systems, database, data security, data processing and storage, internet
services, big data analysis, internet of things.
Technology Transfer Office, Digital Transformation Office, Technology Development Zone,
Distance Education Centre, Continuing Education Centre, Scientific and Technological Research
Application and Research Centre, National Academic Network and Information Centre, Research
and Development, Techno-city, Technopark, University-Industry Cooperation, Incubation Centre

Themes
(1) Digital
components

transformation

(2) Digital campus
(3) Digital education
(4) Digital infrastructure

(5) Future-focused units
Source: the authors

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 070-081

Aytar & Arslan

Future-shaping themes: digital age foresight in Turkish university strategic plans

As per our coding guidebook, the data
collection phase was based on our scanning
procedure. To ensure that this method was
conducted objectively and consistently, it was
repeated for each determined-theme group size,
and data were collected to enable effective
comparison,
counting,
computation,
and
evaluation. At the conclusion of this procedure,
however, it was possible to discern which
university groups shared similarities versus
which groups differed.

4. Results
Table 2 shows the percentages and frequency with
which universities in the Turkish higher education
system included codes representing digital age
themes in their strategic plans.

Table 2 Digital age code usage rates

Themes

Digital transformation components

Digital campus

Digital education

Digital infrastructure

Codes
Society 5.0
Industry 4.0
digital content
digital environment
digital resources
digital support
digital engagement
digital literacy
advanced technology
innovation
nanotechnology
new technology
robot technologies
smart city
smart building
smart campus
smart class
smart class charts
smart access
smart transport
mobile technology
smart systems
e-learning
e-application
e library
e-book
e-journal
virtual class
virtual reality
web based training
web portal
information technologies
software
big data analysis
internet of things
technology infrastructure
network infrastructure
artificial intelligence
cyber security systems
wireless
cloud computing systems
database
data security
data processing and storage
internet services

%
2
18
13
53
57
18
5
11
41
90
33
56
21
7
3
14
21
1
62
7
37
21
28
50
19
38
27
19
12
78
25
78
79
12
11
85
55
20
30
47
10
81
16
19
81

N
4
35
25
103
111
35
10
21
80
176
64
109
41
14
6
27
41
2
121
14
72
41
55
98
37
74
53
37
23
152
49
152
154
23
21
166
107
39
59
92
20
158
31
37
158

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 070-081

75

76

Aytar & Arslan

Future-shaping themes: digital age foresight in Turkish university strategic plans

Future-focused units

Technology Transfer Office
Digital Transformation Office
Technology Development Zone
Distance Education Centre
Continuing Education Centre
BILTEM*
ULAKNET**
Research and Development
Technocity
Technopark

75
3
50
86
81
2
48
92
48
57

146
6
98
168
158
4
94
179
94
111
Source: the authors

Topic 1: Digital transformation components

Digital transformation is viewed as a business
model development and technology transformation
process using distinctive tools, as opposed to the
utilisation of technology in business activities;
many technologies that drive digital transformation
provide new business process paradigms
(Fukuyama, 2018; Plekhanov, Franke & Netland,
2022; Tang, 2021). This paradigm challenges the
new generation of universities to higher
developmental levels by emphasising efficiency
and production, with an emphasis on technology
and the Internet (Bygstad, Øvrelid, Ludvigsen &
Dæhlen, 2022; Li, 2020). It has been discovered
that universities’ strategic plans place increasingly
greater emphasis on the concept of “innovation,”
which is a component of digital transformation
while communicating their future predictions and
goals. In the scope of the present study, 175 (90%)
of the 195 universities whose strategic plans were
analysed mentioned innovation directly. Therefore,
this study found that the majority of universities in
the Turkish higher education system were mindful
of the economic and scientific potential of the
innovation concept and employ it in their future
plans. And still, it was discovered that “digital
source” and “new technology” were the second and
third most prevalent codes in the analysed strategic
plans. According to these plans, the Turkish higher
education system addressed the issue of digital
transformation
through
innovation-oriented
studies, the expansion of digital resources, and the
implementation of new technology.
Topic 2: Digital campus

Digital campus refers to the educational complex
that enables all higher education-related physical
procedures to be performed using internet-based
technologies (Liu et al., 2017). This complex
includes the digital environment that potentially
integrates various teaching and learning systems in
order to optimize education, training, and research

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 070-081

processes (Huang, Zhang, Hu & Yang, 2012). Of
the 195 colleges analysed, 62% (n = 121) whose
strategic plans were reviewed as part of the study
kept “smart access” – a digital campus component
– on their calendars. The emphasis on smart access
as a prerequisite for the achievement of the digital
campus ideal is regarded as an important
discovery, in terms of the frequency with which
this concept appeared in plans. Hence, the majority
of universities within the Turkish higher education
system appeared cognisant of the fact that the
mobility elements of the idea of smart access will
lead to distinction in higher education. Hence, the
concept of smart access is regarded as one of the
most functional digital campus components that
colleges can use and implement in their future
plans.
Topic 3: Digital education

Although the field of digital education, which
offers the opportunity to learn independently of
time and space, is subject to many criticisms from
different angles (e.g., Gourlay, 2021; Komljenovic,
2021), it seems the most functional solution
proposal of educational institutions against
developments that limit individuals (Belousova,
Belousov & Narkevich, 2021; Decuypere,
Grimaldi & Landri, 2021). The strategic plans
studied here placed great emphasis on the digital
education components of “software,” “information
technologies,” and “web-based education” when
communicating their future projections and
aspirations. Of the 195 universities assessed, 79%
(n = 155) of strategic plans mentioned “software”;
and 78% (n = 152) contained references to
“information technologies” and “web-based
education.” As a result, it was found that Turkish
universities were typically aware of the interactive
potential of software, ITs, and web-based
education, and they incorporated these concepts
into their future plans.

Aytar & Arslan

Future-shaping themes: digital age foresight in Turkish university strategic plans

Topic 4: Digital infrastructure elements

Digital infrastructure refers to the competence and
capacity to process, store, and show the data
required for a healthy and efficient use of digital
tools and processes (Otto, Foreman & Verra,
2008). Components of an organisation's digital
infrastructure increase its operating capacity in the
digital world. Of the 195 strategic plans reviewed,
the concepts “technological infrastructure” (85%),
“database” (81%), and “internet services” (81%)
appeared in universities’ future plans for digital
infrastructure implementation. Thus, the majority
of universities in the Turkish higher education
system appeared cognisant of the digital revolution
and planned to exploit the potential of technology
infrastructure, database, and internet service
concepts. Among the investigated strategic plans,
“cloud information systems,” “Internet of Things,”
and “big data analysis” were the least prominent
digital infrastructure themes mentioned. The
strategic plans of only 19 universities included
mentions of cloud computing systems, IoT, and big
data analysis.

examined, 92% (n = 179) designated a research and
development (R&D) unit; 88% (n = 171)
referenced a unit of university-industry
cooperation; 86% (n = 186) mentioned Distance
Education Centre (UZEM); while 81% (n = 159)
identified concepts such as Continuing Education
Centre (SEGEM) with the digital age.
In the future plans of these units, a direct
connection was voiced with the digitalisation
processes. Therefore, it was determined that the
majority of universities in the Turkish higher
education system were/are aware of the economic
and scientific potential of R&D, universityindustry cooperation, UZEM, and SEGEM, and
that these concepts were used concretely in their
plans for the future. Again, it was determined that
75% of the examined strategic plans referred to the
concepts of Technology Transfer Office (TTO),
57% cited Technopark, and 50% of them reported
Technology Development Zone (TGB) in their
strategic plans, and the studied universities
developed plans, policies, and strategies related to
these concepts.

Topic 5: Future-focused units

5. Comparisons between universities

There were specific work units referenced in the
future plans of universities that are directly related
to the digital era. Due to the specific skills that
individuals in these units possess and the unique
tasks they do, these units were identified with the
future. Of the 195 university strategic plans

As a result of the analyses conducted on publicly
available university information, Table 3 shows the
theme frequencies of the university groups for the
predetermined dimensions. Table 3 displays which
university group placed greater emphasis on which
themes within each digital age dimension.

Table 3 Comparison of interuniversity theme content

Themes / Universities

State

Foundation

Research

Digital transformation
components

innovation
(%91)
smart access
(%66)
software & IT
(%87)
technology infrastructure
(%91)

innovation
(%86)
smart access
(%54)
web based training
(%70)
database
(%91)

research and
development
(%91)

continuing
education centre
(%91)

Innovation
(%94)
smart access
(%56)
software
(%96)
technology
infrastructure
/database
(%91)
technology transfer
office
(%91)

Digital campus
Digital education
Digital infrastructure

Future-focused units

Entrepreneurial and
innovative
innovation
(%94)
smart access
(%52)
software
(%81)
technology infrastructure
/database
(%91)
research and
development
(%91)
Source: the authors

Discussion
This study’s findings suggest that the digital
transformation components of the strategic plans of
Turkish universities did not differ by university
group. “Innovation” was the most frequent digital
transformation term referenced by Turkish
universities in their strategic plans. The scientific

infrastructure and transformation potential of the
innovation notion make it acceptable as the
foundational concept of digital transformation in
this country's universities.
The “smart access” theme, which was a
component of the ideal “digital campus,” was the
most prevalent topic among university groupings.

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 070-081

77

78

Aytar & Arslan

Future-shaping themes: digital age foresight in Turkish university strategic plans

Smart access technology is required for both the
effective usage of mobile devices and the extensive
deployment of IoT technologies on campus. The
fundamental requirement of the digital campus
ideal is smart access. Turkish universities appeared
aware of this concept's potential to facilitate the
future operation of numerous procedures.
Apparently, Türkiye’s universities use
software, web-based education, and IT in their
digital education components. In terms of these
components, per the most prevalent concepts
mentioned, “software” was emphasised in the
strategic plans of research and entrepreneurial
universities; “software” and “information
technologies” in state universities’ plans; and
“web-based education” in foundation universities’
strategic plans. Also, it was evident that
“technology infrastructure” and “database” were
emphasised in the strategic plans of all
universities’ digital infrastructure development. It
was observed that there was no substantial
difference in the strategic plans of the university
groups regarding their technological infrastructure
proposals.
It was also observed that the proportion of
digital
transformation-focused
“units”
in
universities' strategic plans varied by university
group. It was evident that research universities
valued the “technology transfer office” subject
more than other universities, and this theme was
the most prevalent theme in strategic plans created
by research universities. The “continuing
education centre” unit was where foundation
universities appeared to focus their attention, per
their strategic plans. Finally, it was determined that
state and entrepreneurial university organisations
delegated more responsibilities to their R&D units.
Last, it was evident that studied universities
were focused on supporting the quality of
education with advanced technology and
increasingly effective education solutions in their
future plans. It was seen that the frequency of
concepts such as “data,” “information,” “research,”
and “internet” from our collective text analyses
was high. However, it was seen that universities
appeared to undertake important tasks in their
efforts to reach both their central and unit targets,
and the expectations for these units were high.

Conclusion
In today's environment, where technology is
continually changing, digital transformation
appears inevitable. This shift is accelerated by the
impact of technology (which is supposed to make
STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 070-081

our lives easier) on our lifestyle and institutions’
organisational structures. Technology has tended
to have a favourable impact on the creation and
dissemination of knowledge. Industry 4.0, AI, big
data, IoT, robots etc. are evolving quickly as a
result of technology, particularly with the
development of the Internet to increase mobility
and ongoing digitalisation processes. It is obvious
that physical constraints, such as the time and space
needed to obtain information, have been
substantially reduced.
The themes and concepts identified in the
research findings are not merely trendy popular
phrases but also encompass aims that have been
highlighted by the Presidency of Turkey Digital
Transformation Office and the Presidency of
Strategy and Budget which conducts audits of
strategic plans. Senior management places
significant emphasis on implementing specific
practises and processes to operationalize these
notions.
The education industry is unquestionably one
of the sectors most affected by digital age
developments. The growth of IT ideally helps
education become more efficient and creative, for
example with AI, virtual reality, 3D printers, and
more. With technological advances, education has
reached new levels of sophistication. These
advances increase the efficacy and prevalence of
online education alternatives. Indeed, all facets of
education are now directly affected by
technological advancements. Expectations for the
integration of education and technology have
increased by the simple fact that the student
population entering university these days is a
generation born into technology.
Within the scope of the study, five fundamental
themes derived from codes relating to the future of
university education in Turkish strategic plans
were identified. These themes included elements of
digital transformation, a digital campus, digital
education, digital infrastructure, and futurefocused units. The substance of these five topics
was reviewed in relation to four distinct university
groups across the nation, and it was determined
whether there was a substantial variation in the
approach to our digital age based on university
type. It was discovered that only future-focused
units distinguished these four types of universities
considerably.
We hope that our study’s methodology and
findings will inspire both future scientific research
and improved strategic planning of universities.
The ideal of a more liveable environment and

Aytar & Arslan

Future-shaping themes: digital age foresight in Turkish university strategic plans

society filled with content individuals necessitates
an ecosystem in which digital technologies are
utilised effectively, ethically, and broadly.
Universities are attempting to make the future
brighter by devising techniques to teach students –
our human resource – how to accomplish this
objective.

Cheung, S. K., Kwok, L. F., Phusavat, K., & Yang, H. H.
(2021). Shaping the future learning environments with
smart elements: challenges and
opportunities. International Journal of Educational
Technology in Higher Education, 18, 1-9.
https://doi.org/10.1186/s41239-021-00254-1

References

Creswell, J. W. (2007). Qualitative inquiry and research
design. Thousand Oaks: Sage.

Aavik, K. (2019). Craftling neoliberal futures in the strategic
plans of Estonian univesities. Futures, 111, 148-158.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.futures.2018.10.003
Abad-Segura, E., González-Zamar, M. D., Infante-Moro, J.
C., & Ruipérez García, G. (2020). Sustainable
management of digital transformation in higher
education: global research trends. Sustainability, 12(5),
2107.
https://doi.org/10.3390/su12052107
Aytar, O. (2019). Do the ethical declarations of companies
consist of similar stereotypical concepts and topics? Or
are they original commitments? Business &
Management Studies: An International Journal, 7(4),
1944–1966.
https://doi.org/10.15295/bmij.v7i4.1188
Aytar, O. (2022). Is digital visual isomorphism inevitable in
successful companies? A Comparison of the colours
used on global companies’ websites. Global Business
Review.
https://doi.org/10.1177/09721509221126024
Bal, H. (2013). Nitel Araştırma Yöntemleri. Isparta: Fakülte
Kitabevi.
Belousova, M. N., Belousov, V. A., & Narkevich, L. V.
(2021). Digital Transformation of the Educational
Process in University in the Context of Globalization.
In Socio-economic Systems: Paradigms for the
Future (pp. 1267-1277). Cham: Springer International
Publishing.
Bıkmaz Bilgen, O., & Doğan, N. (2017). The comparison of
interrater reliability estimating techniques. Journal of
Measurement and Evaluation in Education and
Psychology-Epod, 8(1), 63-78.
https://doi.org/10.21031/epod.294847
Bonfield, C. A., Salter, M., Longmuir, A., Benson, M., &
Adachi, C. (2020). Transformation or evolution?:
Education 4.0, teaching and learning in the digital
age. Higher education pedagogies, 5(1), 223-246.
https://doi.org/10.1080/23752696.2020.1816847
Bowen, G. A. (2009). Document analysis as a qualitative
research method. Qualitative research journal. 9 (2),
27-40.
https://doi.org/10.3316/QRJ0902027
Bryson, J. M. (1988). A strategic planning process for public
and non-profit organizations. Long range
planning, 21(1), 73-81.
https://doi.org/10.1016/0024-6301(88)90061-1
Bygstad, B., Øvrelid, E., Ludvigsen, S., & Dæhlen, M.
(2022). From dual digitalization to digital learning space:
exploring the digital transformation of higher
education. Computers & Education, 182, 104463.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compedu.2022.104463
Chandler, Jr, A. D. (1969). Strategy and structure: chapters
in the history of the American industrial enterprise (Vol.
120). Massachusetts: MIT press.

Chun, R. (2017). How virtuous global firms say they are: a
content analysis of ethical values. Journal of Business
Ethics, 155, 1–17.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-017-3525-3

Davies, W. (2000). Understanding strategy. Strategy &
Leadership, 28(5), 25-30.
https://doi.org/10.1108/10878570010379428
Decuypere, M., Grimaldi, E., & Landri, P. (2021).
Introduction: critical studies of digital education
platforms. Critical Studies in Education, 62(1), 1-16.
https://doi.org/10.1080/17508487.2020.1866050
Drucker, P. (1996). The frontiers of management. London:
Routledge.
Erceg, V., & Zoranović, T. (2022). Knowledge management
and digital business transformation. Strategic
Management-International Journal of Strategic
Management and Decision Support Systems in
Strategic Management, 27(2), 57-63.
https://doi.org/10.5937/StraMan2200007E
Ertem Vehid, H., & Eral, G. (2014). Statistical methods used
in the evaluation of qualitative data. Çocuk
Dergisi, 14(2), 60-61.
https://doi:10.5222/j.child.2014.060
Fukuda, K. (2020). Science, technology and innovation
ecosystem transformation toward society 5.0.
International journal of production economics, 220,
107460.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2019.07.033
Fukuyama, M. (2018). Society 5.0: aiming for a new humancentered society. Japan Spotlight, 27(5), 47-50.
Fumasoli, T., Barbato, G., & Turri, M. (2020). The
determinants of university strategic positioning: a
reappraisal of the organisation. Higher Education, 80,
305-334.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10734-019-00481-6
George, B., Walker, R. M., & Monster, J. (2019). Does
strategic planning improve organizational performance?
A meta‐analysis. Public Administration Review, 79(6),
810-819.
https://doi.org/10.1111/puar.13104
Gourlay, L. (2021). There is no “virtual learning”: the
materiality of digital education. Journal of New
Approaches in Educational Research, 10(1), 57-66.
https://doi.org/10.7821/naer.2021.1.649
Harris, H. (2001). Content analysis of secondary data: a
study of courage in managerial decision
making. Journal of Business Ethics, 34, 191–208.
https://doi.org/10.1023/A:1012534014727
Hashim, H. (2018). Application of technology in the digital
era education. International Journal of Research in
Counseling and Education, 2(1), 1-5.
https://doi.org/10.24036/002za0002
Hanssen, T.-E.S. & Solvoll, G. (2015). The importance of
university facilities for student satisfaction at a
Norwegian University, Facilities, 33(13/14), 744-759.
https://doi.org/10.1108/F-11-2014-0081

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 070-081

79

80

Aytar & Arslan

Future-shaping themes: digital age foresight in Turkish university strategic plans

Herbane, B. (2019). Rethinking organizational resilience
and strategic renewal in SMEs. Entrepreneurship &
Regional Development, 31(5-6), 476-495.
https://doi.org/10.1080/08985626.2018.1541594

Moldagali, B., Sultanova, B., Akhtayeva, N., Suleimenova,
A., & Akimbekova, S. (2022). Innovative technologies:
digitalisation of education. Journal of Social Studies
Education Research, 13(4), 209-224.

Horner, S., Jayawarna, D., Giordano, B., & Jones, O.
(2019). Strategic choice in universities: managerial
agency and effective technology transfer. Research
Policy, 48(5), 1297-1309.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.respol.2019.01.015

Murphy, M. & Costa, C. (2019). Digital scholarship, higher
education and the future of the public intellectuel.
Futures, 111, 205-212.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.futures.2018.04.011

Huang, MH., Rust, R.T. A strategic framework for artificial
intelligence in marketing. J. of the Acad. Mark. Sci. 49,
30–50 (2021).
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11747-020-00749-9
Huang, R., Zhang, J., Hu, Y., & Yang, J. (2012). Smart
campus: the developing trends of digital campus. Open
Education Research, 18(4), 12–17.
Ismagilova, E., Hughes, L., Dwivedi, Y. K., & Raman, K. R.
(2019). Smart cities: Advances in research — an
information systems perspective. International journal of
information management, 47, 88-100.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2019.01.004
Karabulut, B. (2015). Bilgi Toplumu Çağında Dijital Yerliler,
Göçmenler ve Melezler. Pamukkale Üniversitesi Sosyal
Bilimler Enstitüsü Dergisi, 21, 11-23.

Newman, J., Mintrom, M., & O'Neill, D. (2022). Digital
technologies, artificial intelligence, and bureaucratic
transformation. Futures, 136, 102886.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.futures.2021.102886
Nickols, F. (2016). Strategy, strategic management,
strategic planning and strategic thinking. Management
Journal, 1(1), 4-7.
Odabaşı, Y. (2006). Değişimin ve Dönüşümün Aracı Olarak
Girişimci Üniversite. Girişimcilik ve Kalkınma Dergisi,
1(1), 87-104.
Otto, G., Foreman, R., & Verra, G. (2008). FIELD OF THE
FUTURE digital infrastructure and IT architecture.
Paper presented at the Intelligent Energy Conference
and Exhibition, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
https://doi.org/10.2118/112149-MS

Kıral, B. (2020). Nitel bir veri analizi yöntemi olarak
doküman analizi. Siirt Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler
Enstitüsü Dergisi, 8(15), 170-189.

Parlak, B. (2017). Education In digital age: an analysis on
opportunities and applications. Suleyman Demirel
University The Journal of Faculty of Economics and
Administrative Sciences, 22, 1741-1759.

Komljenovic, J. (2021). The rise of education rentiers: digital
platforms, digital data and rents. Learning Media and
Technology, 46(3), 320-332.
https://doi.org/10.1080/17439884.2021.1891422

Plekhanov, D., Franke, H., & Netland, T. H. (2022). Digital
transformation: a review and research agenda.
European Management Journal.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.emj.2022.09.007

Koçak, A., & Arun, Ö. (2006). İçerik Analizi Çalışmalarında
Örneklem Sorunu. Selçuk İletişim, 22-28.

Popping, R. (2000). Network text analysis. In Popping R.
(Ed.), Computer-Assisted Text Analysis (pp. 97–128).
SAGE Publications.
https://doi.org/10.4135/9781849208741.n6

Krippendorff, K. (2018). Content analysis: An introduction to
its methodology. SAGE Publications.
https://doi.org/10.4135/9781071878781
Kuzu, Ö.H. (2020). Digital transformation in higher
education: a case study on strategic plans. Higher
Education in Russia. 29(3), 9-23.
https://doi.org/10.31992/0869-3617-2019-29-3-9-23
Levin, I., & Mamlok, D. (2021). Culture and society in the
digital age. Information, 12(2), 1-13.
https://doi.org/10.3390/info12020068
Li, F. (2020). The digital transformation of business models
in the creative industries: a holistic framework and
emerging trends. Technovation, 92, 102012.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.technovation.2017.12.004
Liu, D., Huang, R., Wosinski, M., Liu, D., Huang, R., &
Wosinski, M. (2017). Smart learning in digital
campus. Smart Learning in Smart Cities, 51-90.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-4343-7_4
Lukovics, M. & Zuti, B. (2017). New Functions of
Universities in Century XXI Towards “Fourth
Generation” Universities (October 4, 2017).
academia.edu 9: Paper ID: 20371078. San Francisco,
California.
Lune, H. & Berg, B. L. (2017). Qualitative Research
Methods for the Social Sciences. Harlow: Pearson.
Mampaey, J., Huisman, J., & Seeber, M. (2015). Branding
of Flemish higher education institutions: a strategic
balance perspective. Higher Education Research &
Development, 34(6), 1178-1191.
https://doi.org/10.1080/07294360.2015.1024634

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 070-081

Porter, M. E. (1996). What is strategy? Harvard Business
Review, November-December.
Renz, S.M., Carrington, J.M.,& Badger, T.A. (2018). Two
strategies for qualitative content analysis: an
intramethod approach to triangulation. Qualitative
Health Research, 28(5), 824-831.
https://doi:10.1177/1049732317753586
Rof, A., Bikfalvi, A., & Marquès, P. (2020). Digital
transformation for business model innovation in higher
education: overcoming the tensions.
Sustainability, 12(12), 4980.
https://doi.org/10.3390/su12124980
Sandkuhl, K., & Lehmann, H. (2017). Digital Transformation
in Higher Education – The Role of Enterprise
Architectures and Portals. Alexander Rossmann, Alfred
Zimmermann (eds.), 49-60, Bonn: Digital Enterprise
Computing.
Saruhan, S. C. & Yıldız, M. L. (2017). Çağdaş Yönetim
Bilimi. İstanbul: Beta Basım Yayım.
Saykili, A. (2019). Higher education in the digital age: the
impact of digital connective technologies. Journal of
Educational Technology & Online Learning, 2(1), 1-15.
https://doi.org/10.31681/jetol.516971
Shah, M. (2013). Renewing strategic planning in
universities at a time of uncertainty. Perspectives:
Policy and Practice in Higher Education, 17(1), 24-29.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13603108.2012.679753

Aytar & Arslan

Future-shaping themes: digital age foresight in Turkish university strategic plans

Sharma, S., & Behl, R. (2023). Strategic alignment of
information technology in public and private
organizations in India: a comparative study. Global
Business Review, 24(2), 335-352.
https://doi.org/10.1177/0972150919893839

TUBITAK (2021). Türkiye Bilimsel ve Teknolojik Araştırma
Kurumu, Girişimci ve Yenilikçi Üniversite Endeksi.
Retrieved July 15, 2022 from
https://www.tubitak.gov.tr/tr/icerik-girisimci-ve-yenilikciuniversite-endeksi.

Sillence, E., Dawson, J. A., McKellar, K., & Neave, N.
(2022). How do students use digital technology to
manage their university-based data: strategies,
accumulation difficulties and feelings of
overload?. Behaviour & Information Technology, 1-10.
https://doi.org/10.1080/0144929X.2022.2126948

Weber, R. P. (1990). Basic Content Analysis. Sage
University Paper Series on Quantitative Applications in
the Social Sciences. 49.
https://doi.org/10.4135/9781412983488

Schoellman, T. & Smirnyagin, V. (2021). The growing
importance of universities for patenting and innovation,
SSRN, 1-48.
http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3911375
Şimşek, M. Ş., & Çelik, A. (2016). Yönetim ve Organizasyon
. Konya: Eğitim Yayınevi.
Tang, D. (2021). What is digital transformation?. EDPACS,
64(1), 9-13.
https://doi.org/10.1080/07366981.2020.1847813
Taebi, B., van den Hoven, J., & Bird, S. J. (2019). The
importance of ethics in modern universities of
technology. Science and Engineering Ethics, 25, 16251632.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11948-019-00164-6
Taşkıran, A. (2017). Dijital Çağda Yükseköğretim.
Açıköğretim Uygulamaları ve Araştırmaları Dergisi ,
3(1), 96-109.

Wheelen, T. L., Hunger, J. D., Hoffman, A. N., & Bamford,
C. E. (2015). Strategic management and business
policy globalization, innovation, and sustainability.
Boston: Pearson Education, Inc.
Whittington, R. (2019). Opening Strategy: Professional
Strategists and Practice Change, 1960 to Today.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
https://doi.org/10.1093/oso/9780198738893.001.0001
Wolf, C., & Floyd, S. W. (2017). Strategic planning
research: Toward a theory-driven agenda. Journal of
management, 43(6), 1754-1788
https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206313478185
YOK (2021). Yükseköğretim Kurulu, Üniversitelerimiz.
Retrieved August 20, 2022, from
https://www.yok.gov.tr/universiteler/universitelerimiz
Zagame, P. (1993). Planification stratégique: Quelques
réflexions pour une transposition à la planification
nationale. Revue Economique, 44, 13-55.
https://doi.org/10.2307/3502390

 Correspondence

Oğuzhan Aytar
Karamanaoglu Mehmetbey University, Faculty of Economics and
Administrative Sciences,
Urgan Mah, Karaman 70100, Türkiye
E-mail: oguzhanaytar@kmu.edu.tr

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 070-081

81

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 082-088
DOI: 10.5937/StraMan2200023D
Received: March 29, 2022
Revised: June 06, 2022
Accepted: June 08, 2022
Published online: September 29, 2022

Banking service quality perceived by
students: implications to green services
Nenad Đokić
University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Republic of Serbia
https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8229-8354
Nikola Milićević
University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Republic of Serbia
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-4834-6994
Branimir Kalaš
University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Republic of Serbia
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9141-7957
Ines Đokić
University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Republic of Serbia
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0920-0469
Abstract
Background: The paper examines banking service quality perceived by students as a basis for determining
implications for green services. The focus was on this market segment bearing in mind its potential effects on
banks’ long-term profitability and students’ acquaintance with environmental issues. The attention was
dedicated to the green banking concept taking into account the role which banks have in creating an eco-friendly
society.
Purpose: The aim of the research refers to identifying banking service quality aspects that are important for
students. Later, those can be used as a starting point in determining actions regarding green services in the
case of the student population.
Study design/methodology/approach: The quality of a bank service was modeled as a hierarchical reflectiveformative construct, because of which the SmartPLS software was applied. Five SERVQUAL dimensions
(assurance, empathy, reliability, responsiveness, and tangibles) were specified as lower-order reflective
constructs which form the higher-order formative construct (banking service quality). After testing the model,
separately for reflective and formative constructs, path coefficients were presented.
Finding/conclusions: The results have shown that responsiveness and assurance represent dimensions that
have the largest contribution to banking service quality, i.e. the highest path coefficients to higher-order
construct. In accordance with those findings, certain implications concerning green services were given.
Limitations/future research: The omission of certain variables that may be related to banking services
represents the limitation of this study; hereby, in future researches, some socio-demographic characteristics
(such as gender, household income, etc.) could be included in the analysis.
Keywords
service quality, green banking, environment, reflective-formative construct

Introduction
The banking sector is the area in which service
quality has been drawing the attention of many
researchers. Following Miguel-Dávila, CabezaGarcía, Valdunciel and Flórez (2010, p. 2164),
banking service can be defined as “the activity

carried out by banking institutions considered as
service companies; that is, everything that banking
institutions do to serve their customers”. Studies
related to this field of interest were performed in
various countries, including, among others, Spain
(Marimon, Yaya & Fa, 2012), Germany (Yavas,
Benkenstein & Stuhldreier, 2004), Sweden

Đokić et al.

Banking service quality perceived by students: implications to green services

(Strandberg, Wahlberg & Öhman, 2012), Slovenia
(Korda & Snoj, 2010), Croatia (Ozretic-Dosen &
Zizak, 2015), Northern Cyprus (Karatepe, Yavas &
Babakus, 2005), Australia (Joseph, McClure &
Joseph, 1999), China (Wang, Lo & Hui, 2003),
Indonesia (Supriyanto, Wiyono & Burhanuddin,
2021), Kenya (Auka, Bosire & Matern, 2013),
Pakistan (Awan, Bukhari & Iqbal, 2011), Qatar
(Hossain & Leo, 2009), Jordan (Pakurár, Haddad,
Nagy, Popp & Oláh, 2019) and Colombia (MiguelDávila et al. 2010).
The analysis of banking service quality could
be used as a basis for the decision-making process
related to a new market and environmental
conditions. Climate change and pollution have led
to the implementation of new business concepts
and products, whereas the majority of stakeholders
took certain actions in order to prevent or at least
minimize their negative effects on the
environment; among them, a special place belongs
to banks, which, in addition to mitigating their
negative efforts, are trying to increase positive
contributions toward more eco-friendly society
(Bukhari, Hashim & Amran, 2020). In this regard,
banks began to expand their offers with new
products and services, and undertake marketing
and other activities, all in order to be more “green”
(Zhelyazkova & Kitanov, 2015).
When it comes to concerns about the
environment, particular attention should be
dedicated to students, bearing in mind that the
world’s survival largely depends on their
engagements and attitudes toward green products
(Mohiuddin, Mamun, Syed, Masud & Su, 2018).
This segment is important for banks as well.
Despite the narrow range of services that can be
offered to students (usually including current
accounts and different kinds of loans for financing
their education), this population should not be
neglected bearing in mind that it is well “equipped”
to cope with technological changes that became the
indispensable part of banking business in
nowadays conditions (Ozretic-Dosen & Zizak,
2015). According to Lewis, Orledge and Mitchell
(1994, p. 3), banks and building societies suppose
“that with little bank switching, attracting accounts
from the young, although not profitable in the short
term, should be in the longer term”. In other words,
by focusing on university students at the beginning
of their economic life cycles, banks hope to
develop sustainable relations with them, which
should result in higher profits in later years
(Narteh, 2013).

Starting from the above, this paper analyses
banking service quality (BSQ) perceived by
university students, as a basis for determining
implications for green services. Before setting the
model, several different approaches related to BSQ
were presented in the literature review section; in
addition, the concept of green banking (GB) was
explained. The banking service quality model was
specified as a formative higher-order construct that
consisted of five reflective lower-order constructs
(dimensions). After presenting the results, a section
related to discussion and conclusions follows.
Within it, certain implications regarding green
services were presented.

1. Literature review
1.1. Banking service quality perceived by
students

Banking service quality perceived by students has
been investigated in a number of studies. In some
of them, it was assessed on the basis of a
SERVQUAL approach (Bond & Hsu, 2011;
Ozretic-Dosen & Zizak, 2015; Bhengu & Naidoo,
2016; Mokhlis, Hasan & Yaakop, 2014).
Bhengu and Naidoo (2016) tested banking
service quality (assurance, empathy, reliability,
responsiveness, and tangibles) perceived by MBA
students in South Africa. Their results pointed to
the existence of students’ dissatisfaction regarding
the quality of retail banks’ service offerings,
whereby gap scores were analyzed in the context
of a year of study and students’ bank choices.
Students’ perceptions and expectations in
regard to banking service quality were examined in
Croatia, in the study performed by Ozretić-Došen
& Žižak (2015). The research revealed gaps in all
five SERVQUAL dimensions, whereby the largest
ones were observed in reliability, assurance, and
responsiveness, while the smallest one was
recorded in tangibles. Hereby, it should be
mentioned that obtained gaps were weighted in
relation to the significance of service quality
dimensions evaluated by students; the most
significant dimension was reliability, followed by
assurance, responsiveness, empathy and tangibles
as the least significant.
Mokhlis et al. (2014) examined students’
assessment of bank service quality the in
Malaysian banking industry. The importanceperformance analysis (IPA) was used for
evaluating five bank service dimensions.
According to their findings, reliability and
responsiveness represented the most problematic
STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 082-088

83

84

Đokić et al.

Banking service quality perceived by students: implications to green services

dimensions, bearing in mind that they were both,
underperforming and important for students. On
the other hand, there were no problems with
assurance which was associated with high
performance and high importance, while empathy
and tangibles (although on different levels of
performance) were unimportant for students, and
thus didn’t pose large threats to a bank.
In the research conducted by Bond and Hsu
(2011), the focus was on international students and
their perceptions of the service quality of UK
banks. With the use of GAP analysis, they
identified areas of service quality with which
international students were satisfied, as well as
areas with which they were not. The former
referred to tangibles, such as appearance and
physical layout; and the latter were related to
factors associated with empathy and reliability.
Besides assessing banking service quality, the
subject of the studies was relations between this
phenomenon and other constructs, such as
satisfaction and/or loyalty. In some of them, for
measuring the quality of banking service,
researchers also relied on the SERVQUAL
approach, with smaller or larger changes (Hin,
Wei, Bohari & Adam, 2011; Reddy & Karim,
2014; Yilmaz, Ari & Gürbüz, 2018). However, in
certain studies, the approach for assessing quality
was accommodated to the specific aspect of
banking service. Therefore, when measuring
Internet banking service quality among the student
population in Pakistan, Raza, Umer, Qureshi and
Dahri (2020) used the modified e-SERVQUAL
model; Ganguli and Roy (2011), on the other hand,
identified four quality dimensions (technology
security and information quality, technology
convenience, technology usage easiness and
reliability, and customer service) regarding the
technology-based banking services.
1.2. Green banking

As Zhelyazkova and Kitanov (2015) stated, despite
its widespread application, the term “green
banking”, also known as sustainable banking,
ethical banking, or environment-friendly banking
(Tara, Singh & Kumar, 2015), does not have a
commonly accepted definition. Since its first
introduction by the Dutch bank, Triodos Bank, in
1980 (Zhang, Wang, Zhong, Yang & Siddik,
2022), the GB concept has been the subject of
many studies.
After presenting several views of other authors,
Zhelyazkova and Kitanov (2015) defined green
banking as “banking in all its business aspects
STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 082-088

(deposit gathering, credit disbursement, trade
finance, leasing operations, mutual funds and
custodian services, etc.) which is oriented towards
preservation of environment” (p. 310). Following
Tara et al. (2015) green banking represents “the
environment-friendly banking practices that
promote their customers to reduce the carbon
footprint through their banking activities” (p.
1030). Bukhari et al. (2020, p. 372) quoted the
definition of the international finance corporation
(IFC) according to which green banking is related
to “a blend of bank’s own direct environmental
impact reduction, managing environmental and
social risks in banks’ decision-making processes
and supporting businesses and industries that have
a positive impact on the environment and society”
(p. 372). According to Park and Kim (2020), green
banking was defined as “financing activities by
banking and nonbanking financial institutions with
an aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and
increase the resilience of the society to negative
climate change impacts while considering other
sustainable development goals such as economic
growth, job creation and gender equality" (p.4). In
the paper by paper by Zhang et al. (2022), it was
mentioned that “GB contributes towards the
development of sustainable business practices and
alleviation of the negative effects of banking
activities on the environment through the supply of
loans for environmentally favorable initiatives”
(p. 3).
Banks can directly affect the environment
through their daily operations related to waste and
resource managing (the use of toners, electrical
energy, paper, etc.); on the other hand, indirect
effects are associated with relations between banks
and their clients, concerning loans and other
services, as well as to activities (such as marketing
and PR) that should increase the environmental
awareness at a social level (Zhelyazkova &
Kitanov, 2015). In order to adjust their business to
eco-friendly trends, banks have started to
implement green financial products and services;
they can all be classified into six main categories:
loan, insurance, securitization, equity investment,
brokerage and market-making, and technical
assistance (Park & Kim, 2020, p. 17).
Among mentioned categories, loan and equity
investment could be of special interest for students.
Clients can use loans for purchasing energyefficient and climate-smart products, whereby
besides different appliances and vehicles, they can
buy climate-adjusted seeds and agriculture
equipment; banks can also support investing in

Đokić et al.

Banking service quality perceived by students: implications to green services

ventures and start-ups related to the development
of climate-smart and green technologies (Park &
Kim, 2020).

2. Research methodology
The paper analyses banking service quality (BSQ)
by relying on the questionnaire presented in the
research of Lau, Cheung, Lam and Chu (2013, p.
273). In addition to 15 statements regarding service
quality dimensions, which respondents were
supposed to rate on a scale from 1 (“strongly
disagree”) to 7 (“strongly agree”), it included
several questions related to demographic
characteristics such as gender, age and household
size.
The sample consisted of 191 students from the
University of Novi Sad. The majority of them were
female (more than 75%); the average age was 21.3
years, and the average household size was 4.1. The
data have been processed in 2021, with the use of
SmartPLS 3.0 software.
The quality of service is designed as a
hierarchical reflective-formative model; the
second-order construct (BSQ) is formed by five
reflective first-order dimensions (assurance,
empathy,
reliability,
responsiveness,
and
tangibles). This type of hierarchical model was
applied in line with recommendations given by
Parasuraman, Zeithalm and Malhotra (2005).
Hereby, for its estimation the repeated indicator
approach (Becker, Klein & Wetzels, 2012) was
implemented, meaning that the higher-order
construct was specified using all indicators of the
underlying dimensions (Figure 1).

extracted (AVE), composite reliability (CR), and
discriminant validity (by using the Fornell-Larcker
criterion), when testing reflective first-order
dimensions. When it comes to the second-order
formative construct (BSQ), multicollinearity and
path coefficients between BSQ and its first-order
dimensions were analyzed (Hair et al. 2017).
Outer loadings (used for evaluating indicator
reliability) were higher than 0.7 for all items; the
values of AVE and CR were also satisfactory, i.e.
they were above 0.5 and 0.7, respectively.
However, the application of the Fornell-Larcker
approach pointed to certain problems regarding
discriminant validity between reliability, on one
side, and assurance and responsiveness, on the
other. In order to handle this issue, we performed
the correlation analysis which included all
indicators of previously mentioned constructs; as a
result, we identified one indicator (Rel3) which
was highly correlated with indicators in
comparable constructs. After its elimination from
both, the reliability dimension and higher-order
BSQ construct, the changed model was tested.
Table 1 Outer loadings, AVE, and Composite reliability

ATTRIBUTES
BSQ
- Assurance
A1
A2
A3
- Empathy
E1
E2
E3
- Reliability
Rel1
Rel2
- Responsiveness
Res1
Res2
Res3
- Tangibles
T1
T2
T3

Loadings

AVE

CR

0.804

0.925

0.749

0.899

0.779

0.875

0.798

0.922

0.694

0.872

0.891
0.887
0.911
0.834
0.886
0.875
0.888
0.876
0.893
0.909
0.877
0.828
0.832
0.838
Source: the authors

Figure 1 Conceptual model
Source: the authors

Following Hair, Hult, Ringle & Sarstedt (2017),
we examined indicator reliability, average variance

As presented in Table 1, outer loadings (for all
indicators), AVE, and CR (for lower-order
constructs) were higher than threshold values of
0.7, 0.5, and 0.7, respectively. In addition, the
Fornell-Larcker criterion was established, bearing
in mind that values presented on the main diagonal
STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 082-088

85

86

Đokić et al.

Banking service quality perceived by students: implications to green services

(square roots of constructs’ AVE) were higher than
values presented in the same columns and rows
(correlations with other constructs).
Table 2 Fornell-Larcker criterion

Ass.
Emp.
Rel.
Res.
Tan.

Ass.

Emp.

Rel.

Res.

Tan.

0.897
0.697
0.828
0.743
0.671

0.865
0.695
0.839
0.734

0.882
0.695
0.621

0.893
0.823

0.833

Source: the authors

In the case of the higher-order BSQ construct,
all path coefficients were positive and statistically
significant with a p-value lower than 0.01, while all
inner VIF values were below 10, demonstrating no
multicollinearity issues.

3. Research results
Because of the use of the repeated indicator
approach, R2 value equaled 1. As previously
mentioned, path coefficients were positive, ranging
from 0.155 to 0.264 (Figure 2).

Figure 2 Path coefficients
Source: the authors

The largest path coefficient was recorded at
responsiveness (0.264), followed by assurance
(0.252). In the case of empathy and tangibles, their
values were 0.238 and 0.214, respectively. The
only path coefficient lower than 0.2 was recorded
at reliability (0.155).

Discussion and conclusions
The paper examined banking service quality
regarding student population in order to determine
STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 082-088

implications regarding green services. Although
this segment of market may not be so attractive to
banks, especially in the short term, through
acquisition and retention of students, banks can
expand their customer base and reap the benefits in
later years (Narteh, 2013; Ozretic-Dosen & Zizak,
2015). Moreover, when it comes to green banking,
it should be noted that students in emerging
countries (as shown by several studies) generally
have higher levels of environmental knowledge
and moderate level of environmental awareness
(Mohiuddin et al. 2018, p. 2). That can be taken as
an additional motive for considering students as
potential green service clients.
When analyzing the quality of banking service,
the attention was devoted to its five dimensions,
derived from SERVQUAL model: assurance,
empathy, reliability, responsiveness and tangibles.
Hereby, the special value of this research is the way
in which banking service quality was modeled. It
was set as a hierarchical reflective-formative
model, which consists of one higher-order (BSQ)
and five lower-order constructs (SERVQUAL
dimensions); as those reflective lower-order
constructs define banking service quality
altogether, the higher-order construct is specified
as formative.
The obtained results have shown that
responsiveness and assurance were the dimensions
that contributed the most to banking service
quality. This is partially in a line with the research
conducted by Ozretić-Došen and Žižak (2015) in
which assurance was also perceived as a significant
service quality dimension. In addition, in the study
by Mokhlis et al. (2014) assurance had the highest
importance score when it comes to banking service
quality dimensions assessed by students. However,
opposite to these studies, where reliability was
perceived as an important dimension, in our
research it had the lowest contribution. It should be
noted here that due to different approaches in
analyzing banking service quality, making
comparisons with other studies is rather complex
and should be approached with a certain caution.
When it comes to responsiveness, its
contribution can be explained through the
importance of contact and interaction between
clients and bank staff. During studies, a significant
number of people start to use banking services for
the first time, and thus need more information;
because of this, the initial contact with bank staff
and its helpfulness and affability may be of great
importance for students. Therefore, if banks offer
green services, their staff should be well

Đokić et al.

Banking service quality perceived by students: implications to green services

acquainted, not only with technical aspects of those
services but with environmental aspects as well
(for example, the focus may be on both personal
and environmental benefits of using green
services). Moreover, some organizational
accommodations could be made to increase clients’
awareness and facilitate the use of those services.
The significance of the assurance dimension
can be reflected in the very nature of banking
services; as they are directly connected to money,
service accuracy and the fulfillment of promises
and commitments can have special weight, not
only for students but for other clients as well. The
implementation of banking applications, through
which clients can get the necessary information
and control the service delivery process, may be of
great help in increasing the level of assurance.
Positive effects could also be expected from
implementing assurance principles when offering
green banking services.
In future researches, students’ environmental
awareness and intentions regarding banking green
services could be analyzed; moreover, additional
variables, such as students’ socio-demographic
characteristics, satisfaction, and loyalty could be
examined as well.

Acknowledgement
The paper is a result of work on the project
“Financial, marketing and management aspect of
energy efficiency in the function of sustainable
development of the AP Vojvodina” – long-term
project of special interest for sustainable
development in AP Vojvodina 2021-2024. Project
number: 142-451-2537/2021.

References
Auka, D.O., Bosire, J.N. & Matern, V. (2013). Perceived
service quality and customer loyalty in retail banking in
Kenya. British Journal of Marketing Studies, 1, 32-61.
Awan, H.M., Bukhari, K.S. & Iqbal, A. (2011). Service
quality and customer satisfaction in the banking sector:
a comparative study of conventional and Islamic banks
in Pakistan. Journal of Islamic Marketing, 2(3), 203-224.
https://doi.org/10.1108/17590831111164750
Becker, J.M., Klein, K. & Wetzels, M. (2012). Hierarchical
latent variable models in PLS-SEM: guidelines for using
reflective-formative type models. Long Range Planning,
45(5-6), 359-394.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2012.10.001
Bhengu, M. & Naidoo, V. (2016). Retail banking service
quality: a client perception study. Risk Governance &
Control: Financial Markets & Institutions, 6(4-1), 216222.
https://doi.org/10.22495/rcgv6i4c1art11

Bond, C. & Hsu, M.T-C. (2011). International students’
perceptions of service quality in the UK banking sector:
an exploratory study. Journal of International Students,
1(2), 50-58.
https://doi.org/10.32674/jis.v1i2.553
Bukhari, S.A.A., Hashim, F. & Amran, A. (2020). Green
banking: a road map for adoption. International Journal
of Ethics and Systems, 36(3), 371-385.
https://doi.org/10.1108/IJOES-11-2019-0177
Ganguli, S. & Roy, S.K. (2011). Generic technology-based
service quality dimensions in banking: Impact on
customer satisfaction and loyalty. International Journal
of Bank Marketing, 29(2), 168-189.
https://doi.org/10.1108/02652321111107648
Hair, J., Hult, G., Ringle, C. & Sarstedt, M. (2017). A primer
on partial least squares structural equation modeling
(PLS-SEM). Los Angeles: Sage Publications.
Hin, C.W., Wei, C.C., Bohari, A.M. & Adam, M.Z.A. (2011).
Bank selection criteria and service quality of Islamic
banking: a comparison between muslim and nonmuslim students and its effect on student’s satisfaction.
Jurnal Ekonom, 14(3), 104-114.
Hossain, M. & Leo, S. (2009). Customer perception on
service quality in retail banking in Middle East: the case
of Qatar. International Journal of Islamic and Middle
Eastern Finance and Management, 2(4), 338-350.
https://doi.org/10.1108/17538390911006386
Joseph, M., McClure, C. & Joseph, B. (1999). Service
quality in the banking sector: the impact of technology
on service delivery. International Journal of Bank
Marketing, 17(4), 182-191.
https://doi.org/10.1108/02652329910278879
Karatepe, O.M., Yavas, U. & Babakus, E. (2005).
Measuring service quality of banks: scale development
and validation. Journal of Retailing and Consumer
Services, 12(5), 373–383.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jretconser.2005.01.001
Korda, A.P. & Snoj, B. (2010). Development, validity and
reliability of perceived service quality in retail banking
and its relationship with perceived value and customer
satisfaction. Managing Global Transitions, 8(2), 187–
205.
Lau, M.M., Cheung, R., Lam, A.Y.C. & Chu, Y.T. (2013).
measuring service quality in the banking industry: a
Hong Kong based study. Contemporary Management
Research, 9(13), 263-282.
https://doi.org/10.7903/cmr.11060
Lewis, B.R., Orledge, J. & Mitchell, V-W. (1994). Service
quality: students’ assessment of banks and building
societies. International Journal of Bank Marketing,
12(4), 3-12.
https://doi.org/10.1108/02652329410057978
Marimon, F., Yaya, L.H.P. & Fa, M.C. (2012). Impact of eQuality and service recovery on loyalty: a study of ebanking in Spain. Total Quality Management &
Business Excellence, 23(7-8), 769-787.
https://doi.org/10.1080/14783363.2011.637795
Miguel-Dávila, J.A., Cabeza-García, L., Valdunciel, L. &
Flórez, M. (2010). Operations in banking: the service
quality and effects on satisfaction and loyalty. The
Service Industries Journal, 30(13), 2163–2182.
https://doi.org/10.1080/02642060903289936

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 082-088

87

88

Đokić et al.

Banking service quality perceived by students: implications to green services

Mohiuddin, M., Mamun, A.A., Syed, F.A., Masud, M.M. &
Su, Z. (2018). Environmental knowledge, awareness,
and business school students’ intentions to purchase
green vehicles in emerging countries. Sustainability,
10(5), 1534, 1-18.
https://doi.org/10.3390/su10051534
Mokhlis, S., Hasan, Z.R.A. & Yaakop, A.Y. (2014). Tertiary
students’ assessment of service quality in the
malaysian banking industry: an importance
performance analysis. Mediterranean Journal of Social
Sciences, 5(1), 361-368.
https://doi.org/10.5901/mjss.2014.v5n1p361
Narteh, B. (2013). Determinants of students’ loyalty in the
Ghanaian banking industry. The TQM Journal, 25(2),
153-169.
https://doi.org/10.1108/17542731311299591
Ozretic-Dosen, D. & Zizak, I. (2015). Measuring the quality
of banking services targeting student population.
EuroMed Journal of Business, 10(1), 98-117.
https://doi.org/10.1108/EMJB-01-2014-0002
Pakurár, M., Haddad, H., Nagy, J., Popp, J. & Oláh, J.
(2019). The service quality dimensions that affect
customer satisfaction in the Jordanian banking sector.
Sustainability, 11(4), 1-24.
https://doi.org/10.3390/su11041113
Parasuraman, A., Zeithalm, V.A. & Malhotra, A. (2005). ES-QUAL: A Multiple Item scale for assessing electronic
service quality. Journal of Service Research, 7(3), 213233.
https://doi.org/10.1177%2F1094670504271156
Park, H. & Kim, J.D. (2020). Transition towards green
banking: role of financial regulators and financial
institutions. Asian Journal of Sustainability and Social
Responsibility, 5, 1-25.
https://doi.org/10.1186/s41180-020-00034-3
Raza, S.A., Umer, A., Qureshi, M.A. & Dahri, A.S. (2020).
Internet banking service quality, e-customer satisfaction
and loyalty: the modified e-SERVQUAL model. The
TQM Journal, 32(6), 1443-1466.
https://doi.org/10.1108/TQM-02-2020-0019
Reddy, E.L. & Karim, S. (2014). A Study on students’
perception towards quality of banking services. IOSR
Journal of Business and Management, 16(8), 37-41.
https://doi.org/10.9790/487X-16813741
 Correspondence

Nikola Milićević
University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica
Segedinski put 9-11, 24000 Subotica, Republic of Serbia
E-mail: nikola.milicevic@ef.uns.ac.rs

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 082-088

Strandberg, C., Wahlberg, O. & Öhman, P. (2012).
Challenges in serving the mass affluent segment: bank
customer perceptions of service quality. Managing
Service Quality, 22(4), 359-385.
https://doi.org/10.1108/09604521211253478
Supriyanto, A., Wiyono, B.B. & Burhanuddin, B. (2021).
Effects of service quality and customer satisfaction on
loyalty of bank customers. Cogent Business &
Management, 8(1), 1-17.
https://doi.org/10.1080/23311975.2021.1937847
Tara, K., Singh, S. & Kumar, R. (2015). Green banking for
environmental management: a paradigm shift. Current
World Environment, 10(3), 1029-1038.
https://doi.org/10.12944/CWE.10.3.36
Wang, Y., Lo, H-P. & Hui, Y.V. (2003). The antecedents of
service quality and product quality and their influences
on bank reputation: evidence from the banking industry
in China. Journal of Service Theory and Practice, 13(1),
72-83.
https://doi.org/10.1108/09604520310456726
Yavas, U., Benkenstein, M. & Stuhldreier, U. (2004).
Relationships between service quality and behavioral
outcomes: a study of private bank customers in
Germany. The International Journal of Bank Marketing,
22(2), 144-157.
https://doi.org/10.1108/02652320410521737
Yilmaz, V., Ari, E. & Gürbüz, H. (2018). Investigating the
relationship between service quality dimensions,
customer satisfaction and loyalty in Turkish banking
sector: an application of structural equation model.
International Journal of Bank Marketing, 36(3), 423-440.
https://doi.org/10.1108/IJBM-02-2017-0037
Zhang, X., Wang, Z., Zhong, X., Yang, S. & Siddik, A.B.
(2022). Do green banking activities improve the banks’
environmental performance? the mediating effect of
green financing. Sustainability, 14(2), 989, 1-18.
https://doi.org/10.3390/su14020989
Zhelyazkova, V., & Kitanov, Y. (2015). Green banking –
definition, scope and proposed business model.
Ecology & Safety, 9, 309-315.

Strategic Management - International Journal of Strategic Management and Decision Support Systems in Strategic Management

Manuscript requirements
The paper must be written in the template which can be found on the Submission of Papers page of the
Strategic Management journal web site (https://www.smjournal.rs/index.php/home/about/submissions)
and to be sent, together with the Copyright and Use Agreement.
Headings must be short, clearly defined, and numbered, except for Introduction and Conclusions.
Apply at most three levels of headings.
All tables, graphs and diagrams are expected to back your research findings. They should be clearly
referred to and numbered consecutively in Arabic numerals. They should be placed in the text at the
appropriate paragraph (just after its reference).
Tables should be centered. All tables must have captions. The title of your table should follow the table
number. Tables should not be wider than the margins of the paper.
Figures should be centered. All figures must have captions. The title of figures should appear
immediately below the figure. The title of the figure should follow the figure number. Figures should
not be wider than the margins of the paper. Figures will not be redrawn by the publisher. Figures should
be high-quality grayscale graphics (please, do not use colors): vector drawings (with text converted to
curves) or 300 dpi bitmaps.
Please do not supply any graphics copied from a website, as the resolution will be too low. In all figures
taken or adapted from other sources, a brief note to that effect is obligatory, below the figure. One
sentence at least referring to the illustration is obligatory.
Mathematical expressions should be numbered on the right side, while all variables and parameters
must be defined.

Proof
Authors are responsible for ensuring that all manuscripts (whether original or revised) are accurately
typed before final submission. One set of proof will be sent to authors, if requested, before the final
publication, which must be returned promptly.

Strategic Management - International Journal of Strategic Management and Decision Support Systems in Strategic Management

Strategic Management
International Journal of Strategic Management and
Decision Support Systems in Strategic Management

www.smjournal.rs

ISSN: 1821-3448
ISSN 2334-6191 (Online)

The references should specify the source (such as book, journal article or a web page) in sufficient detail
to enable the readers to identify and consult it. The references are placed at the end of the work, with
sources listed alphabetically (a) by authors’ surnames or (b) by the titles of the sources (if the author is
unknown). Multiple entries by the same author(s) must be sequenced chronologically, starting from the
earliest, e.g.:
Ljubojević, T.K. (1998). Ljubojević, T.K. (2000a). Ljubojević, T.K. (2000b).
Ljubojević, T.K., & Dimitrijević, N.N. (1994).
The DOI number or URL of a full text version should be added if it exists.
Here is a list of the most common reference types:

A PERIODICALS
Authors must be listed by their last names, followed by initials. Publication year must be written in
parentheses, followed by a full stop. Title of the article must be in sentences case: only the first word
and proper nouns in the title are capitalized. The periodical title must be in title case, followed by the
volume number, which is also italicized:
Author, A. A., Author, B. B., & Author, C. C. (Year). Title of article. Title of Periodical,
volume number (issue number), pages.
 Journal article, one author, paginated by issue.
Journals paginated by issue begin with page 1 in every issue, so that the issue number is indicated in
parentheses after the
volume. The parentheses and issue numbers are not italicized, e.g.
Seliverstova, Y. (2021). Workforce diversity management: A systematic literature review.
Strategic Management, 26(2), 3–11.
https://doi.org/10.5937/StraMan2102003S
 Journal article, one author, paginated by volume.
Journals paginated by volume begin with page 1 in issue 1, and continue page numbering in issue 2
where issue 1 ended, e.g.
Perić, O. (2006). Bridging the gap: Complex adaptive knowledge management. Strategic
Management, 14, 654–668.

Strategic Management - International Journal of Strategic Management and Decision Support Systems in Strategic Management

 Journal article, two authors, paginated by issue.
Dakić, S., & Mijić, K. (2020). Regression analysis of the impact of internal factors on return on
assets: A case of meat processing enterprises in Serbia. Strategic Management, 25(1), 29–34.
https://doi.org/10.5937/StraMan2001029D
 Journal article, two authors, paginated by volume.
Ljubojević, K., & Dimitrijević, M. (2007). Choosing your CRM strategy. Strategic
Management, 15, 333-349.
 Journal article, three to six authors, paginated by issue.
Marić, S., Uzelac, O., & Strugar-Jelača, M. (2019). Ownership structure as a measure of
corporate performance. Strategic Management, 24(4), 28–37.
https://doi.org/10.5937/StraMan1904028M
 Journal article, three to six authors, paginated by volume.
Boškov, T., Ljubojević, K., & Tanasijević, V. (2005). A new approach to CRM. Strategic
Management, 13, 300-310.
 Journal article, more than six authors, paginated by issue.
Ljubojević, K., Dimitrijević, M., Mirković, D., Tanasijević, V., Perić, O., Jovanov, N., et al.
(2005). Putting the user at the center of software testing activity. Management
Information Systems, 3(1), 99-106.
 Journal article, more than six authors, paginated by volume.
Strakić, F., Mirković, D., Boškov, T., Ljubojević, K., Tanasijević, V., Dimitrijević, M., et al.
(2003). Metadata in data warehouse. Strategic Management, 11, 122-132.
 Magazine article.
Strakić, F. (2005, October 15). Remembering users with cookies. IT Review, 130, 20-21.
 Newsletter article with author.
Dimitrijević, M. (2009, September). MySql server, writing library files. Computing News, 57,
10-12.
 Newsletter article without author.
VBScript with active server pages. (2009, September). Computing News,57, 21-22.

Strategic Management - International Journal of Strategic Management and Decision Support Systems in Strategic Management

B. BOOKS, BROCHURES, BOOK CHAPTERS, ENCYCLOPEDIA ENTRIES, AND
BOOK REVIEWS
Basic format for books
Author, A. A. (Year of publication). Title of work: Capital letter also for subtitle. Publisher.
 Book, one author.
Ljubojević, K. (2005). Prototyping the interface design. Faculty of Economics in Subotica.
 Book, one author, new edition
Dimitrijević, M. (2007). Customer relationship management (6th ed.). Faculty of Economics in
Subotica.
 Book, two authors.
Ljubojević, K., Dimitrijević, M. (2007). The enterprise knowledge portal and its architecture.
Faculty of Economics in Subotica.
 Book, three to six authors.
Ljubojević, K., Dimitrijević, M., Mirković, D., Tanasijević, V., & Perić, O. (2006). Importance
of software testing. Faculty of Economics in Subotica.
 Book, more than six authors.
Mirković, D., Tanasijević, V., Perić, O., Jovanov, N., Boškov, T., Strakić, F., et al. (2007).
Supply chain management. Faculty of Economics in Subotica.
 Book, no author or editor.
Web user interface (10th ed.). (2003). Faculty of Economics.
 Group, corporate, or government author.
Statistical office of the Republic of Serbia. (1978). Statistical abstract of the Republic of
Serbia. Ministry of community and social services.
 Edited book.
Dimitrijević, M., & Tanasijević, V. (Eds.). (2004). Data warehouse architecture. Faculty of
Economics.
 Chapter in an edited book.
Repa, V. (2019). Deriving Key Performance Indicators from Business Process Model. In M.
Pańkowska & K. Sandkuhl (Eds.), Perspectives in Business Informatics Research. BIR 2019.
Lecture Notes in Business Information Processing, vol 365. (pp. 148–162). Springer.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-31143-8_11

Strategic Management - International Journal of Strategic Management and Decision Support Systems in Strategic Management

 Encyclopedia entry.
Mirković, D. (2006). History and the world of mathematicians. In The new mathematics
encyclopedia (Vol. 56, pp. 23-45). Faculty of Economics.

C. UNPUBLISHED WORKS
 Paper presented at a meeting or a conference.
Ljubojević, K., Tanasijević, V., Dimitrijević, M. (2003). Designing a web form without tables.
Paper presented at the annual meeting of the Serbian computer alliance, Beograd.
 Paper or manuscript.
Boškov, T., Strakić, F., Ljubojević, K., Dimitrijević, M., & Perić, O. (2007. May). First steps
in visual basic for applications. Unpublished paper, Faculty of Economics Subotica, Subotica.
 Doctoral dissertation.
Strakić, F. (2000). Managing network services: Managing DNS servers. Unpublished doctoral
dissertation, Faculty of Economics Subotica.
 Master’s thesis.
Dimitrijević, M. (2003). Structural modeling: Class and object diagrams. Unpublished
master’s thesis, Faculty of Economics Subotica.

D. ELECTRONIC MEDIA
The same guidelines apply for online articles as for printed articles. All the information that the online
host makes available must be listed, including an issue number in parentheses:
Author, A. A., & Author, B. B. (Publication date). Title of article. Title of Online Periodical,
volume number (issue number if available). https://www.anyaddress.com/full/url/
 Article in an internet-only journal
Tanasijević, V. (2003, March). Putting the user at the center of software testing activity.
Strategic Management, 8 (4). https://www.ef.uns.ac.rs/sm2024
 Document from an organization
Faculty of Economics. (2008, March 5). A new approach to CRM.
https://www.ef.uns.ac.rs/papers/acrm.html
 Article from an online periodical with DOI assigned.
Jovanov, N., & Boškov, T. A PHP project test-driven end to end. Management Information
Systems, 2 (2), 45-54. https://doi.org/10.5937/StraMan213302003S

Strategic Management - International Journal of Strategic Management and Decision Support Systems in Strategic Management

 Article from an online periodical without DOI assigned.
Online journal articles without a DOI require a URL.
Author, A. A., & Author, B. B. (Publication date). Title of article. Title of Journal, volume
number. https://www.anyaddress.com/full/url/
Jovanov, N., & Boškov, T. A PHP project test-driven end to end. Management Information
Systems, 2 (2), 45-54. https://www.ef.uns.ac.rs/mis/TestDriven.html

REFERENCE QUOTATIONS IN THE TEXT
 Quotations
If a work is directly quoted from, then the author, year of publication and the page reference (preceded
by “p.”) must be included. The quotation is introduced with an introductory phrase including the author’s
last name followed by publication date in parentheses.
According to Mirković (2001, p. 201), “The use of data warehouses may be limited, especially if they
contain confidential data”.
Mirković (2001, p. 201), found that “the use of data warehouses may be limited”. What unexpected
impact does this have on the range of availability?
If the author is not named in the introductory phrase, the author's last name, publication year, and the page
number in parentheses must be placed at the end of the quotation, e.g.
He stated, “The use of data warehouses may be limited,” but he did not fully explain the possible impact
(Mirković, 2001, p. 201).
 Summary or paraphrase
According to Mirković (1991, p. 201), limitations on the use of databases can be external and softwarebased, or temporary and even discretion-based.
Limitations on the use of databases can be external and software-based, or temporary and even
discretion-based (Mirković, 1991, p. 201).
 One author
Boškov (2005) compared the access range…
In an early study of access range (Boškov, 2005), it was found...
 When there are two authors, both names are always cited:
Another study (Mirković & Boškov, 2006) concluded that…
 If there are three or more authors the abbreviation "et al." (Latin for "and others") is employed in
APA in-text citations when referencing works with three or more authors. The format is to include only
the first author's last name, followed by "et al.," a comma, and the year of publication. For instance,
(Dakic et al., 2024) would be used as an example.

Strategic Management - International Journal of Strategic Management and Decision Support Systems in Strategic Management

 Unknown author
If the work does not have an author, the source is cited by its title in the introductory phrase, or the first
1-2 words are placed in the parentheses. Book and report titles must be italicized or underlined, while
titles of articles and chapters are placed in quotation marks:
A similar survey was conducted on a number of organizations employing database managers (Limiting
database access, 2005).
If work (such as a newspaper editorial) has no author, the first few words of the title are cited, followed
by the year: (The Objectives of Access Delegation, 2007)
Note: In the rare cases when the word "Anonymous" is used for the author, it is treated as the author's
name (Anonymous, 2008). The name Anonymous must then be used as the author in the reference list.
 Organization as an Author
If the author is an organization or a government agency, the organization must be mentioned in the
introductory phrase or in the parenthetical citation the first time the source is cited:
According to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Serbia (1978), …
Also, the full name of corporate authors must be listed in the first reference, with an abbreviation in
brackets. The abbreviated name will then be used for subsequent references:
The overview is limited to towns with 10,000 inhabitants and up (Statistical Office of the Republic of
Serbia [SORS], 1978).
The list does not include schools that were listed as closed down in the previous statistical overview
(SORS, 1978).
 When citing more than one reference from the same author: (Bezjak, 1999, 2002)
 When several used works by the same author were published in the same year, they must be
cited adding a, b, c, and so on, to the publication date:
(Griffith, 2002a, 2002b, 2004)
 Two or more works in the same parentheses
When two or more manuscripts are cited parenthetically, they must be cited in the same order as they
appear in the reference list, separated by a semicolon.
(Bezjak, 1999; Griffith, 2004)
 Two or more works by the same author in the same year
If two or more sources used in the submission were published by the same author in the same year, the
entries in the reference list must be ordered using lower-case letters (a, b, c…) with the year. Lowercase letters will also be used with the year in the in-text citation as well:
Survey results published in Theissen (2004a) show that…

Strategic Management - International Journal of Strategic Management and Decision Support Systems in Strategic Management

 To credit an author for discovering a work when you have not read the original:
Bergson’s research (as cited in Mirković & Boškov, 2006)…
Here, Mirković & Boškov (2006) will appear in the reference list, while Bergson will not.
 When citing more than one author, the authors must be listed alphabetically:
(Britten, 2001; Sturlasson, 2002; Wasserwandt, 1997)
 When there is no publication date: (Hessenberg, n.d.)
 Page numbers must always be given for quotations:
(Mirković & Boškov, 2006, p.12)
Mirković & Boškov (2006, p. 12) propose the approach by which “the initial viewpoint…
 Referring to a specific part of a work:
(Theissen, 2004a, chap. 3) (Keaton, 1997, pp. 85-94)
 Personal communications, including interviews, letters, memos, e-mails, and telephone
conversations, are cited as below. (These are not included in the reference list.)
(K. Ljubojević, personal communication, May 5, 2008).

FOOTNOTES AND ENDNOTES
A few footnotes may be necessary when elaborating on an issue raised in the text, adding something
that is in indirect connection, or providing supplementary technical information. Footnotes and endnotes
are numbered with superscript Arabic numerals at the end of the sentence, like this.1 Endnotes begin on
a separate page, after the end of the text. However, Strategic Management does not recommend the
use of footnotes or endnotes.

Strategic Management - International Journal of Strategic Management and Decision Support Systems in Strategic Management

REVIEWERS
Adel Ben Youssef, University of Cote d’Azur, Nice, France
Agneš Slavić, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Aleksandar Grubor, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Aleksandra Marcikić Horvat, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Aleksy Kwilinski, The London Academy of Science and Business, London, UK
Alma Muratović, University of Tuzla, Faculty of Economics, Tuzla, Bosnia and Herzegovina
Ana Paula Vieira Gomes Ferreira, University of Minho, School of Economics and Management, Braga,
Portugal
Ana Živković, University of Osijek, Faculty of Economics, Osijek, Croatia
Anca Draghici, Politehnica University of Timisoara, Timisoara, Romania
Armand Faganel, University of Primorska, Koper, Slovenia
Athanasios Stavrakoudis, University of Ioannina, Ioannina, Greece
Bazin Damien, École Universitaire de Recherche d’Économie et de Management, Graduate School of
Economics and Management, Nice, France
Boban Melović, Univesity of Montenegro, Faculty of Economics, Podgorica, Montenegro
Boris Radovanov, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Branimir Kalaš, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Carolina Feliciana Sá Cunha Machado, University of Minho, School of Economics and Management,
Braga, Portugal
Cicea Claudiu Constantin, Bucharest University of Economic Studies, Bucharest, Romania
Cihan Alphun, University of Kyrenia, Kyrenia, Turkey
Corina Marinescu, Bucharest University of Economic Studies, Faculty of Management, Bucharest,
Romania
Daniela Nuševa, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Dariusz Dymek, Krakow University of Economics, Krakow, Poland
Davor Dujak, University of Osijek, Faculty of Economics, Osijek, Croatia
Dinko Jukić, Trade and Commercial School "Davor Milas", Osijek, Croatia
Donatella Privitera, University of Catania, Catania, Italy
Dragana Rejman Petrović, University of Kragujevac, Faculty of Economics, Kragujevac, Serbia
Fran Galetić, University of Zagreb, Faculty of Economics and Business Zagreb, Zagreb, Croatia
František Pollák, University of Economics in Bratislava, Faculty of Business Management, Bratislava,
Slovakia
Goran Vukmirović, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Grażyna Paliwoda-Pękosz, Krakow University of Economics, Krakow, Poland
Grzegorz Drozdowski, Jan Kochanowski University in Kielce, Kielce, Poland
Helena Šlogar, Libertas International University, Zagreb, Croatia
Irena Đalic, University of East Sarajevo, Faculty of Transport and Traffic Engineering, Doboj, Bosnia
and Herzegovina
Ivana Medved, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Ivana Načinović Braje, University of Zagreb, Faculty of Economics, Zagreb, Croatia
Ivana Nedeljković, University of Kragujevac, Faculty of Economics, Kragujevac, Serbia
Iza Gigauri, St. Andrews Georgian University, Tbilisi, Georgia
Jelena Lukić Nikolić, Modern Business School, Belgrade, Serbia
STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4

Laslo Vasa, Széchenyi Istvàn University, Faculty of Economics, Győr, Hungary
Ljubiša Mićić, University of Banja Luka, Faculty of Economics, Banja Luka, Republic of Srpska, Bosnia
and Herzegovina
Malči Grivec, University of Novo mesto, Faculty of Economics and Informatics, Novo mesto, Slovenia
Maria Kmety Bartekova, University of Economics in Bratislava, Faculty of Business Management,
Bratislava, Slovakia
Marian Reiff, University of Economics in Bratislava, Faculty of Economic Informatics, Bratislava,
Slovakia
Marianna Siničáková, Technical University of Kosice, Faculty of Economics, Kosice, Slovakia
Marijan Angeleski, University “St. Kliment Ohridski”, Faculty of economics, Prilep, North Macedonia
Marko Savković, University of Kragujevac, Faculty of Economics, Kragujevac, Serbia
Marzena Piszczek, Krakow University of Economics, Krakow, Poland
Michal Konečn, Institute of Technology and Business in České Budějovice, České Budějovice, Czech
Republic
Miguel Gil, Jönköping University, Jönköping International Business School, Jönköping, Sweden
Milan Stamenković, University of Kragujevac, Faculty of Economics, Kragujevac, Serbia
Miloš Pjanić, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Mirela Panait, University of Ploiesti, Romania & Institute of National Economy, Romanian Academy,
Bucharest, Romania
Miriama Blahušiaková, University of Economics in Bratislava, Faculty of Economic Informatics,
Bratislava, Slovakia
Nada Milenković, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Nella Svetozarovova, University of Presov in Presov, Presov, Slovakia
Nemanja Berber, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Nina Pološki Vokić, Univeristy of Zagreb, Facluty of Economics & Business, Zagreb, Croatia
Norbert Sipos, University of Pécs, Faculty of Business and Economics, Pécs, Hungary
Oleksii Lyulyov, Sumy State University, Academic and Research Institute of Finance, Economics and
Management, Sumy, Ukraine
Otilia Manta, Romanian Academy, Victor Slavescu Centre for Financial and Monetary Research,
Bucharest, Romania
Otilija Sedlak, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Pawel Tadeusz Kazibudzki, Opole University of Technology, Faculty of Economics and Management,
Opole, Poland
Piotr Soja, Krakow University of Economics, Krakow, Poland
Radenko Marić, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Radmila Bjekić, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Santiago Urio, Universidad Pontificia Comillas, Madrid, Spain
Sebastian L. Grüner, Ulm University of Applied Sciences, Ulm, Germany
Sergej Gričar, University of Novo mesto Faculty of Management and Business Sciences, Novo mesto,
Slovenia
Serpeninova Yuliia, Sumy State University, Sumy, Ukraine
Sezana Mojsovska Salamovska, University of St Kliment Ohridski, Faculty of Economics, Prilep, North
Macedonia
Slavica Mitrović Veljković, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Technical Sciences, Novi Sad, Serbia
Syed Abdul Rehman Khan, Xuzhou University of Technology, Xuzhou, China
STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4

Strategic Management - International Journal of Strategic Management and Decision Support Systems in Strategic Management

Tetyana Pimonenko, Sumy State University, Academic and Research Institute of Business, Economics
and Management, Sumy, Ukraine
Timur Uman, Jönköping University, Jönköping International Business School, Jönköping, Sweden
Tomislav Sudarević, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Ulf Larsson Olaison, Jönköping University, Jönköping International Business School, Jönköping, Sweden
Veljko Miljušković, University of Belgrade, Faculty of Economics, Belgrade, Serbia
Viktorija Petrov, University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics in Subotica, Subotica, Serbia
Violeta Sima, Petroleum-Gas University of Ploiesti, Faculty of Economic Sciences, Ploiesti, Romania
Zbysław Dobrowolski, Institute of Public Affairs, Krakow, Poland
Zsuzsanna Szeiner, J. Seleye University, Faculty of Economics and Informatics, Komarno, Slovakia

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4

ЦИП – Каталогизација у публикацији
Библиотека Матице српске, Нови Сад
005.21
STRATEGIC managament : international journal of strategic managament and decision support
systems in strategic managament / editor-in-chief Lazar Raković. - Vol. 14, no. 1 (2009) - . - Subotica:
University of Novi Sad, Faculty of Economics, 2009-. - 30 cm
Tromesečno. - Nastavak publikacije: Strategijski menadžment = ISSN 0354-8414
ISSN 1821-3448
COBISS.SR-ID 244849927

Rešenjem Ministarstva za informisanje Republike Srbije, časopis "Strategijski menadžment" upisan je u
registar javnog informisanja pod brojem 2213, od 7. avgusta 1996. Rešenjem Ministarstva za nauku i
tehnologiju Republike Srbije br. 413-00-435/1/96-01 časopis je oslobođen opšteg poreza na promet proizvoda
kao publikacija od posebnog interesa za nauku.

ISSN 1821-3448

9 771821 344000

