STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027
DOI: 10.5937/StraMan2300060B
Received: March 17, 2023
Revised: August 22, 2023
October 09, 2023
Accepted: October 24, 2023
Published online: December 26, 2023

Boards’ strategic involvement models:
past, present, and future
Tihona Bozhinovska
Ss. Cyril and Methodius University in Skopje, Faculty of Economics - Skopje, Skopje, Republic of North Macedonia
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3350-7468
Ljupcho Eftimov
Ss. Cyril and Methodius University in Skopje, Faculty of Economics - Skopje, Skopje, Republic of North Macedonia
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0870-4355
Abstract
Background: The research on boards’ strategic involvement has increased dramatically in the last few decades
due to the need for improving boards’ strategic effectiveness as a mechanism for improving organizational
performance. The corporate scandals highlighted even more that boards’ strategic decisions have sizable
consequences for organizational survival, and long-term implications for organizational development.
Purpose: The main research questions in this study are: 1. Which are the main elements of the concept of
boards’ strategic involvement?; 2. Which models constitute the core of the concept and how we can classify
them?; 3. How has the discourse on boards’ strategic role changed over time? Our purpose is to provide
comprehensive answers to these questions and draft the future research agenda in this area.
Study design/methodology/approach: Having in mind that boards’ strategic involvement is a multi-disciplinary
area, we first conducted an integrative literature review, to detect the competing groups of models, and
afterwards we conducted a semi-structured literature review in order to identify the most important topics in this
area and to draft the future research agenda.
Findings/conclusions: This paper contributes to research by identifying the models of boards’ strategic
involvement, classifying them in three competing groups of models that represent the foundation in this research
area, by identifying the most investigated topics in the past five years and finally, by drafting the future research
agenda. Our conclusion is that the research in this multidisciplinary area is navigating around these three groups
of models and that the most explored topics around which the future research is going to be conducted are
boards’ involvement in the area of strategic human resource management and decisions regarding
organizations’ sustainability.
Limitations/future research: The study’s main limitations are related to the fact that the identified models on
boards’ strategic involvement have been developed, mostly by authors from the USA and UK, where the onetier board system is used. In future research, the authors should focus on proposing new framework(s)/model(s)
and supporting its insights with empirical evidence.
Keywords
boards, strategy, boards’ strategic involvement models, sustainable organizational performance, strategic
human resource management

Introduction
Motivation of the paper

The reason for investigating the literature on
boards’ strategic involvement is in the fact that this
is a mature research field that has emerged in the
overlap of theories from several disciplines.
Although the need for increased boards’

participation into the strategic process and strategic
decision-making has been strongly argued from the
beginning of the 70s in the past century, most of
the empirical papers researching this concept have
been published after 1990. The reason for this is in
the fact that boards’ strategic role has been
theoretically defined by Zahra and Pearce II in
1989. By analysing the four prevailing
perspectives on boards’ roles, Zahra and Pearce II

6

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

(1989) elaborated the essence and the key
constituting elements of boards’ strategic role and
thereby created the foundation for further empirical
and theoretical research on boards’ strategic
involvement. Building on their previous work, the
same authors empirically researched boards’
strategic involvement in 1990 on a sample of US
companies and created the first model on boards’
strategic involvement.
In the following decades different authors
investigated boards’ processes related to strategy
and strategic decision-making grounding their
research on a variety of theoretical approaches.
Namely, the authors employed different theoretical
approaches from strategic management to gain
more insight on boards’ processes and particularly
those processes related to boards’ members
involvement in strategy. Although different models
were designed, and therefore the basis for future
research in this area was created during these more
than two decades, their main contribution and
findings have not been properly analysed and
systematized. However, since boards’ work and
processes, particularly those related to strategy, as
noted in several papers represent a “black box”
(Leblach & Schwarts, 2007; Klarner et al., 2020;
Guerra, 2022), the need for thoughtful and
methodological research on the literature on
boards’ strategic involvement is necessary for
gaining clarity and laying the foundations for
further empirical examination on the topic.
Deepening our understanding on strategic process
and the decisions that board members and top
management teams make, as well as their
behaviour in those processes is essential for
selecting proper theoretical and methodological
approaches for empirically researching boards’
strategic involvement and strategic management in
general.
The contribution of this paper is in the synthesis
of the literature on boards’ strategic involvement,
the identification of the key conceptual
frameworks/models, identifying the most popular
topics in this research area in the period 2019-2023
and setting directions for future research. This
could give some insights regarding boards’ work
and their participation in the strategic process that
hopefully could led to a construction of a new
theory on boards’ strategic involvement, as some
academics have already proposed (Rindova, 1999;
Pye & Camm, 2003; Ghaya, 2011).
The paper intends to answer the following
questions:

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

1. Which are the main elements of the concept
of boards’ strategic involvement?
2. Which models constitute the core of the
concept and how we can classify them?
3. How has the discourse on boards’ strategic
role and boards’ strategic involvement
changed over time?
Finally, the main motivation for writing this
paper is in the perceived lack of a study on boards’
strategic involvement that explains the origins and
the foundations of the concept, and how the topic
has reconceptualised in the past decade. We must
reflect and write on this since strategy is the most
important board function (Wommack, 1979) and
because the strategic directions defined at the top
of the organizations determine its survival,
competitiveness, and future growth. Furthermore,
the behaviour of boards and top management teams
members and the practices used in the strategic
management process in the largest organizations,
which can have enormous impact on the overall
economy, remain unavailable for research for most
academics.
Theoretical background

The theoretical approaches that constitute the basis
for researching boards’ strategic involvement
includes the theories related to organizational
sciences and strategic management such as agency
theory, resource dependence theory, strategic
choice theory, stewardship theory and stakeholder
theory. Additionally, for proper investigation of
this concept, the analysis of several approaches
used in psychology is more that need and justified.
Namely, the finding in cognitive psychology has
been used for increasing the understanding of
managerial cognition and the link between
managerial or directors’ cognition with the
strategic process. Furthermore, the investigation of
boards’ strategic involvement is not possible
without understanding the term “involvement”
which is elaborated from organizational
perspective in the works of Maslach and Leither
(1997), who analyse involvement as a component
of employee engagement (in the research on
burnout, which is a very popular topic in the area
of human research management). Consequently,
we can conclude that the theoretical background of
boards’ strategic involvement incorporates the
theories that have been used for defining boards’
strategic role (agency theory
and resource
dependence theory), theories/approaches that
elaborate the process of strategy making and the

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

role of executives in this process (stewardship
theory, strategic choice theory and stakeholder
theory), the cognitive approach that explains how
directors and managers exercise strategic thinking
and strategic behaviours and the theories on
employee engagement that elaborate the meaning
of the term involvement.
One of the main premises of agency theory is
that the firm or the corporation represents a legal
entity that is constituted on a nexus of contracts and
that agency costs are generated by each contractual
agreement (Jensen & Meckling, 1976). Fama and
Jensen (1983) analyse how the agency problems
arise in private organizations and analyse the
decision-making process in situation when there is
separation of ownership and control. Furthermore,
these authors explain the steps in the decisionmaking process and boards’ role in this process.
Additionally, they explain the decision hierarchy
and decisions’ agent’s role in this process. Agency
theory also includes some assumption regarding
the human nature, such as those that humans focus
on their self-interest, have bound rationality and
are risk averse (Eisenhardt, 1989). Zahra and
Pearce II (1989) argue that agency theory
recognises and stresses boards’ strategic role,
which includes “boards’ involvement in and
contribution to articulation of the firm’s mission,
the development of the firms’ strategy and setting
of guidelines for implementation and effective
control of the chosen strategy” (p. 302). The main
premise of the resource dependence theory is that
organizations are externally controlled and that
organizational decisions reflect the environmental
pressures (Pfeffer & Salancik, 2003). Furthermore,
Pfeffer and Salancik (2003) argue that
organizations use co-optation and executive
succession as mechanisms for managing
environmental influences (constrains). Zahra and
Pearce (1989) highlight that resource dependence
theory analyses boards as a link to the external
environment and argue that boards’ strategic role
includes the board members’ impact on the
strategic initiatives of strategic choices. Therefore,
the strategic choice theory should also be analysed
as part of the theoretical background of the concept
of boards’ strategic involvement. Child (1972)
argues that besides the environmental pressures,
strategic choices are severely influenced by the
dominant coalitions within the organisation.
Therefore, the strategic choice perspective stresses
that the strategic decision-making process is
influenced by the distribution of power of the
dominant coalitions within the organization and

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

that strategic choices largely depend on the
cognitive abilities of boards’ members and
managers and their interpretation of the
environmental trends and organizational events
(Child, 1997). Therefore, director’s mind-set,
power and the intra-organizational political
process are critical in the phase of strategic
initiatives generations, and the choices
organisations make are largely impacted by
strategic actors’ ability to understand complexity
and to implement the selected alternative (Child,
1997). Consequently, we conclude that this theory
emphasises the importance of the strategic actors’
(which includes boards’ members and managers)
power, mind-set and ability to cope with
complexity as a critical component in the strategic
process. In other words, board members’ ability to
participate in this process is highly determined by
their understanding of the intra-organizational
political processes. The stewardship theory has
different assumptions from the agency theory and
argues that executives are motivated to act as good
stewards, and therefore boards’ structure should be
designed to enable the needed authority and
discretion in the strategic process (in the
formulation as well as in the implementation phase
of the process) (Davis et al., 1997). This theory
assumes that executives act as good stewards in
any situation and, according to the terminology
introduced by the proponents of the agency theory,
the boards should focus more on the decision
management process, rather than on the control of
the executive members. The theory that
dramatically changed the views about the strategic
management process in the last century was the
stakeholder theory, which must be analysed as part
of the theoretical background of this concept. The
term stakeholder (which included shareholders,
employees, customers, suppliers, lenders and
society) was introduced in 1963 in an internal
memorandum of the Stanford Research Institute,
and the main premise of this theory is that “unless
executives understand the needs and concerns of
the stakeholder groups” they could not formulate
objectives and strategies that enable organizational
survival and growth (Freeman, 1984, pp. 31-32).
Furthermore, the proponents of this theory
elaborate the need for incorporating stakeholder
management as part of the strategic management
process, for which the engagement of executives is
required. Additionally, the authors suggest that
firms’ top executives must be included in the
strategic process and work actively on harmonising
their values with the values of the different groups

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

7

8

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

of stakeholders to be able to properly manage the
relations with the external and internal
environment. Moreover, the proponents of the
theory emphasise that top executives accompanied
by other staff experts must be included in all
strategic management processes in the
organization (Freeman, 1984, pp. 66-67).
Regarding the cognitive perspective in the light
of the concept of boards’ strategic involvement,
firstly we are going to elaborate its components,
and afterwards its relationship with the strategy.
According to Braisby and Gellaty (2005),
cognitive psychology “is the branch of psychology
devoted to the scientific study of the mind” (p. 1),
which includes the study of the observable
individual behaviour, as well as the unobservable
processes that lead to the individuals’ behaviour
(each behaviour includes multiple cognitive
processes). The interest in the adoption of the
cognitive approach in management and strategy
research has intensified at the end of the 1980s and
during the 1990s. Particularly interesting insights
regarding cognition and strategy (which are of
primary interest for our study), were elaborated by
Stubbart (1989). Stubbart (1989) argues that there
are three components of cognition that are crucial
for individuals’ involvement in the strategic
management process. These elements are:
1. Intentions which are related to the executives
and non-executives’ motivation to think about
strategic issues and options; 2. Representations
which are related to executives and non-executives
knowledge about strategic management; and
3. Computation which refers to the processes for
encoding, locating, using, changing, manipulating,
sustaining
or
abandoning
the
mental
representations and intentions (Stubbart, 1989, p.
331). Therefore, we can conclude that the boards’
members’ cognition is tightly related to boards’
strategic involvement, and this is the reason why
the cognitive approach has been incorporated as a
theoretical background in some of the behavioural
models of the concept.
Finally, the last theoretical approaches that
must be analysed for fully understanding the
concept of boards’ strategic involvement are those
related to employee engagement, which define the
term “involvement”. The most comprehensive
definition of the term involvement in the context of
organizational sciences has emanated from the
proponents of the theories on employee
engagement. Namely, there are two dominant
theories (Saks & Gruman, 2014) in the scientific
research of employee engagement: the one that

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

relies on the research related to job burnout and
employee well-being and the one that relies on the
research in psychology and sociology related to the
roles individuals occupy at work and to what
degree. Khans’ work (1990) enables us to
understand how individuals occupy certain roles,
how they are drawn to perform the tasks within
each role they have and the so called “self-in role”
processes, which is relevant for our topic since it
gives an insight on how directors (or board
members) are motivated for fulfilling the tasks
included in the boards’ strategic role and how we
can analyse theirs dedication to the strategic tasks.
The second theoretical approaches related to
employee engagement are those that are focused on
researching job-burnout (Maslach & Leither,
1997), which understand employee engagement as
opposite condition to job burnout. Maslach and
Leither (1997, p. 161) explain that the
psychological state of engagement (or burnout) has
three components – energy, involvement and
effectiveness – and define involvement as “degree
of concern and cynicism about work”.
To sum up, the development of all these
theoretical approaches has enabled the research on
boards’ strategic involvement as separated
concepts. Basically, the theories that define the
scope of boards’ strategic role (agency and
resource dependence theory), the theories that
broaden the understanding of the strategic
management process and explain how strategic
choices are or should be made by the individual
(stewardship theory, stakeholder theory, strategic
choice theory and cognitive perspective), as well as
the theories that form the foundation of the
employee engagement as a separate concept must
be taken into consideration for understanding
boards’ strategic involvement, its essence and
elements.
Evolution of thought

The boards’ members’ strategic involvement has
been driving the attention of both practitioners and
academics since the early 1970s. The reasons for
increased interest in boards’ involvement in
strategy, and the internal governance mechanisms
in the 1970s were related to the fact that several
large corporations in the USA, managed by
professional full-time executives, experienced
difficulties in operation (Cheffins, 2015).
Basically, the interest in this area has increased as
the pitfalls of “managerial capitalism” became
more visible.
Regarding the evolution of thought on boards

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

strategic involvement, through the analysis of 150
articles published between 1972 and 2007,
Pugliese et al. (2009) identified three periods: the
first one is called the emerging debate on boards’
strategic involvement (1972-1989), the second one
is called the heyday of input-output approaches
(1990-2000) and the third one is named towards
more pluralism in the board-strategy debate (20012007). In the last period (2008-2020), Bezemer et
al. (2023) found that the authors, besides
investigation of the traditional variables and
constructs, also focus on the relevance of the
organizational context and the underlining
dynamics and processes.
Consequently, it can be noted that boards’
strategic involvement in the past few decades has
significantly developed and generated new insights
regarding boards’ tasks and behaviours. Besides, as
a result of the corporate scandals and crisis, as well
as of the changes in the external environment,
boards’ tasks and roles have also evolved, which
has been particularly evident during the Covid-19
period and in the so-called post-pandemic period.
Therefore, the increasing number of papers within
this research area have generated a substantive
knowledge base (which according to Torraco, 2005
and Snyder, 2019 are the characteristics of a mature
topic), and have created the opportunity for
conducting an integrative literature review. The
main purpose of this integrative literature review is
the synthesis of the existing knowledge and the
presentation of a classification of the models that
represent the essence of this topic.
Namely, the proliferation of models started
when the lack of a suitable model was perceived as
one of the main obstacles to boards’ involvement
in strategy (Rosenstein, 1987). In accordance with
our understanding, other barriers for boards’
involvement into strategy include: the boards
members’ lack of knowledge and expertise for
certain issues; boards’ dynamics; the CEO power
and his/her perception about the role of other
boards’ members; and finally, the attitude boards’
members have about the execution of their
strategic role (do they support the active or passive
school of thought as elaborated by Levrau & Van
den Berghe, 2007).
Aim and structure of the paper

This paper aims to: 1. create a comprehensive
overview of boards’ strategic involvement models,
and to systematize them accordingly, whereby the
foundation of this multidisciplinary research area
can be clearly identified; and 2. to identify the main

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

topics in the articles researching boards’ strategic
involvement published in the past 5 years and draft
the future research agenda.
The methodology employed for investigating
boards’ strategic involvement are explained in
section 1. The key findings are elaborated in
section 2. This section has three parts: the first part
is dedicated to identification of the models that
represent the core of the concept of boards’
strategic involvement; the second part is dedicated
on the identification of current research themes in
this area; and the third part on drafting future
research agenda. From a methodological point of
view, the first part of this section represents an
integrative literature review, and the second part is
a semi-structured literature review. The third
section of the paper includes Discussion and the
fourth - Conclusion.

1. Methodology
For conducting the integrative literature review we
selected papers analysing boards’ strategic
involvement using different theories and
perspectives, from several disciplines and subdisciplines: management, strategic management
and economics. In the first step we identified eight
(8) papers that developed comprehensive models
on boards’ strategic involvement. The following
eight models were selected in the first phase of the
literature review: the model of Zahra and Pearce II
(1990); the model of Judge and Zeithaml (1992);
the model of McNulty and Pettigrew (1999); the
model of Forbes and Milliken (1999), the
Rindovas’ model (1999); the model developed by
Pye and Camm (2003); the model developed by
Drew and Kaye (2007); and the Ghayas’ model
(2011). All selected models were published in
prominent/reputable
journals
from
the
management
research
area
(European
Management Journal, Academy of Management
Journal, Organizational Studies, Academy of
Management Review, Journal of Management
Studies, Journal of General Management and
European Management Journal, respectively),
except for the last one, which was published in a
Working Paper of the University of Strasburg,
Faculty of Economics and Management.
The reason for including these eight models is
in the fact that they incorporate several different
perspectives/approaches for explaining the essence
of the concept. Namely, as we have already
mentioned, boards’ strategic involvement is
multidisciplinary research and therefore if the
authors relied only on one theory (for example,

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

9

10

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

only on agency theory without incorporating any
other theory or approach used in the organizational
sciences), they would fail to demonstrate the
complexity of the topic. Hence, our reasoning is
that only the models that rely on other approach
besides the agency theory (although this does not
mean that agency theory has to be included) or
explain the relation of boards’ strategic role with
the overall organizational performance should be
included in this analysis.
In the second step, we analysed the papers by
conducting an exploratory inductive analysis to
understand on which theories or approaches they
rely on. This resulted in the generation of Table 1
where we present the models that constitute the
core of the concept and which criteria each of them
meets.
In the third step we analysed the models’
element, classified them in three categories and
identified the similarities and differences between
the models within each group.
The methods used in these three steps were
thematic analysis and content component analysis
as described by Bergman et al. (2017).
Furthermore, to investigate the current topics in
this research area, we conducted a semi-systematic
literature review. This approach gives an
opportunity for identifying the most researched
issues related to boards’ involvement in strategy
and drafting the future research agenda. Although
the semi-systematic literature review is less
rigorous than the structured literature review, it
gives an overview of the existing knowledge in the
field and has been used in social sciences in the
past few decades (Snyder, 2019).
The semi-systematic literature review was
conducted in several steps: 1. we identified the key
research articles in this area published in the period
between 2019 and 2023; 2. we analysed them by
reading only the title and the abstract and classified
them in three groups in accordance with their
relevance for the research questions addressed in
this study; 3. we read and analysed the full articles
which resulted in their reclassification and
identification of the most popular topics in this
research area in the past five years. The key words
identified used for selecting the articles were:
boards and strategy, strategic involvement of the
boards; and boards and strategic decision making.
Overall, sixty-four research articles were selected
in the first phase. After analysing the articles’
content and the journal in which they were
published the total number of articles included in
this part of the study was forty-eight (48). The last

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

phase included identification of the topics
addressed in these studies, which were published in
journals indexed in Scopus and SCI in the period
between 2019 and 2023.

2. Key findings
2.1. Boards’ strategic involvement models
classification

The identified models of boards’ involvement in
strategic decision-making are systematized broadly
in the following groups: generic (basic or general)
models, behavioural models, and integrative
models. Some of them were created as part of
empirical studies, while others were created in
conceptual papers. The identified three types of
models differ in the definition of the concept, the
factors identified as determinants/predictors of
boards’ strategic involvement and the expected
outcomes of boards’ strategic involvement. The
classification of boards’ strategic involvement
models is presented in Figure 1.
The first group of models (generic, basic or
general models) includes the models developed by
Zahra and Pearce II (1990), and Judge and
Zeithaml (1992). According to Maasen (2002), the
most prominent characteristics of the general
models of boards’ involvement in strategy are that
boards’ attributes, such as boards’ composition or
structure are recognized as important determinants
of boards’ strategic involvement, models recognize
external pressures; and that boards’ strategic
involvement impacts overall organizational
performance.

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

Table 1 Models included in the integrative literature review and the criteria they met
Criteria
Model

Does it explains the relation of
boards' strategic involvment with
organizational performance?

Approach
No approached/theory described in this paper. However, in their
previous works on defining boards’ strategic roles authors rely
on agency and resource dependence theory (Zahra & Pearce II,
1989).
Institutional and strategic choice perspective

Yes

No

Rindova, 1999

Agency and resource dependance theory, as well as some
approaches from organizational sociology.
Upper echelons and strategic choise perspective, cognitive
approach and approaches from organizational sociology.
Agency theory and cognitive approach.

Yes

Pye and Camm, 2003

Agency and transaction cost theory, stewardship theory,
resource dependance theory, class hegemony, and managerial
hegemony.
Stakeholder theory.

Yes

Agency and transaction cost theory, stakeholder theory, class
hegemony and legalistic perspective.

Yes

Zahra and Pearce II, 1990
Judge and Zeithmal, 1992
McNultty and Pettigrew, 1999
Forbes and Millicken, 1999

Drew and Kaye, 2007
Ghaya, 2011

Yes

Yes
No

Source: the authors’ construction

Figure 1 Classification of boards’ strategic involvement models

Source: the authors’ construction

The main differences between the two models
refer to how authors identify the determinants of
boards’ strategic involvement, more specifically
which boards’ characteristics are analysed as
determinants of boards’ strategic involvement, the
role of the organizational performances in the
model and the methods used for testing the
hypothesis. Namely, to develop the model Judge
and Zeithaml (1992) use the institution and
strategic choice perspective, while Zahra and
Pearce II (1990) do not elaborate any theoretical
approach as a foundation for the model they
constructed. Furthermore, the model developed by
Judge and Zeithaml (1992) includes determinants,

as well as outcomes of/from boards’ strategic
involvement. Zahra and Pearce II (1990), in
contrast, focus only on the determinants.
Moreover, in the analysis of the determinants,
Judge and Zeithaml (1992) use only the formal
characteristics of board composition (boards size
and insider representation), together with
organizational age and level of diversification,
while Zahra and Pearce II (1990) include several
boards characteristics: representation of outsider
directors, directors’ experience, efficiency on
internal board operations, board independence and
criticality of board contribution which refers to the
argument that if boards’ role is perceived as more
STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

11

12

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

valuable, more discretion will possess (Zahra &
Pearce II, 1990, p. 167). Additionally, these two
models differ significantly in their understanding
of the position of organizational performances in
the model. Namely, according to Zahra and Pearce
(1990), the organization performance gap should
be investigated as predictor of boards’ strategic
involvement, since “…boards are likely to become
more involved in the strategic process at times of
major corporate crises” (Zahra & Pearce II, 1990,
p. 167). On the other hand, in the Judge and
Zeithaml model, organizational performance is
analysed as an outcome. Regarding definition,
Zahra and Pearce II (1990) explain that boards’
strategic involvement covers the attention boards
give to strategy, while alternatively Judge and
Zeithaml (1992) understand the concept as boards’
contribution in strategy formulation and
evaluation. Finally, Zahra and Pearce II (1990) use
a questionnaire as method for data gathering and
testing the hypothesis, while Judge and Zeithaml
(1992), use telephone interviews with directors.
The second group of models, the behavioural
models, includes the frameworks that recognize
structural characteristics of boards’ composition
and environmental pressures as determinants of
boards’ strategic involvement, but also include
predictors related to boards’ dynamics. Most of the
models placed in this group were developed at the
end of the second and the beginning of the third
period, since this group includes the models
constructed by McNulty and Pettigrew (1999),
Forbes and Milliken (1999), Rindova (1999), and
Pye and Camm (2003).
McNulty and Pettigrew (1999) conducted
research on boards’ involvement in capital
investment decision process. The most significant
contribution of this model is the identification of
the levels of boards’ strategic involvement.
Furthermore, McNulty and Pettigrew (1999) argue
that the influences that determine boards’ strategic
involvement can be classified in two categories:
contextual (increased attention to boards’ duties,
crisis in business performance and directors’
contracts) and processual influences (boards’
agenda and meetings, informal interim dialog).
Forbes and Milliken (1999) introduce the
cognitive perspective in the research of boards’
strategic involvement and try to understand the
determinants of boards’ task performance, which
include
boards’
characteristics
(boards’
demographic characteristics), boards’ cognitive
conflicts and boards’ characteristics as a group.
Forbes and Milliken (1999) argue that the

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

influence of boards’ characteristics is indirect,
through their impact on the boards’ processes, and
recognize the relation of the tasks within the
boards’ roles and the impact of boards’
cohesiveness on its’ ability to perform the tasks.
Moreover, these authors imply that boards’ task
performance has an impact on overall
organizational performance.
Rindova (1999) published her contribution in
the same year as the previous authors and
according to this model, the determinants of
boards’ strategic involvement include: boards’
size, boards’ composition, boards’ relationships,
decision complexity and uncertainty and directors’
expertise. Rindova (1999) understands boards’
strategic involvement as directors’ engagement
and proposes that directors’ strategic participation
is related to better decision quality. Rindova (1999)
does not claim that director’s strategic involvement
is related to organizational performance.
Pye and Camm (2003) developed a model that
has three key elements: environmental and
contextual factors that influence non-executive
directors’
roles
and
boards’
roles,
conceptualizations of boards’ roles and
conceptualization of non-executive directors’
roles. The contextual and environmental factors
that influence the non-executive directors’ roles
and boards’ roles include: the extent of regulation
within the industry, the presence of influential
stakeholders outside the organization, commercial
requirements of the organization to develop new
core competencies or to enter new markets, the
potential for mergers and acquisitions activity, and
perceived level of risk to the organization. Pye and
Camm (2003) explain the role and contribution of
boards throughout the learning board model that
they have constructed. More specifically, Pye and
Camm (2003) imply that board members have two
potentially conflicting agendas - performing and
conforming. In the interception of these two
dimensions of performance and conformance, the
authors have identified four different aspects of
boards’ contribution. Namely, when boards are
concerned with short-term performance and
external conformance, they focus closely on
accountability. When boards are focusing on shortterm performance and internal conformance their
main role is management supervision. In situations
where boards’ members focus on long-term
performance and external conformance, they give
contribution by policy formulation. And when
boards focus on long-term performance and
internal conformance boards’ members engage in

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

strategic thinking. Besides, Pye and Camm (2003)
suggest that the key aspects of non-executive
directors’ role are: contribution to strategy
formulation, ensuring the company has the right
CEO, ensuring that business development
strategies are in place, ensuring the board is
focused on maximizing long-term shareholder
value, ensuring that risk management strategies are
in place, and ensuring that the management team is
competent.
The models included in this category are
attempting to explain boards’ strategic
involvement by simplifying their processes and
boards’ behaviour as a group, and by
simultaneously emphasizing the uncertainty of the
environment in which they operate. As Ginsberg
(1994) explains, the strategy development process
includes
convergence
of
the
available
sociocognitive
resource
(human
and
organizational). For the human resources, the most

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

important are the practical problem-solving and
verbal abilities and their social competencies,
while in terms of the organizational resource, the
ability to implement mapping and modelling
techniques and to design proper structures and
incentive systems are perceived as crucial
(Ginsberg, 1994). Therefore, the boards’ ability for
meaningful participation in strategy is largely
dependent on the sociocognitive characteristics of
the individual boards’ members, and of the board
as a group. The behavioural models of boards’
strategic involvement are important, since they
investigate how boards approach the grand tree
problem of decision-making (identified by
Levinthal & March, 1993): ignorance, ambiguity,
and conflict. The key features of the behavioural
models of boards’ strategic involvement are
presented in Table 2.

Table 2 Comparison of behavioural models of boards’ strategic involvement
Models’ elements
Definition of boards’ involvement in
strategic decision-making
Factors influencing boards’
McNulty and
Pettigrew 1.
Defined through the levels of
(1999)
strategic involvement
participation
2.
Boards’ strategic involvement
levels
3.
Description of boards’
behavior on each level of
involvement
Forbes and Milliken (1999)
1.
Determinants of boards
Performing tasks for fulfilling boards’
strategic involvement
strategic role
2.
Board-level results
3.
Firm-level results
Rindova (1999)
1.
Determinants: boards’ size,
Directors’ participation in strategy
boards’ composition, boards’
formulation, or in scanning,
relationships, decision
interpretation of the available
complexity and uncertainty,
information and choosing the most
directors’ expertise
suitable alternative.
2.
Determining directors’
contribution in strategy
3.
Directors’ contribution
outcomes
Pye and Camm (2003)
1.
Factors influencing boards’
Contribution to the strategy
strategic involvement;
formulation process for achieving
2.
Boards’ contribution and
the desired level of performance in a
roles;
given organizational environment.
3.
NEDs’ roles and contribution

Expected outcomes
Do not investigate the outcomes of
boards’ strategic involvement.
Rather, they are more focused on
the definition of the concept and on
the determinants.
Impact on boards’ effectiveness and
on organizational performances
Improving decision quality

Expected impact on organizational
performances.

Source: the authors’ construction

The third group of models is the group of
integrative models. In this group, we have included
the models of Drew and Kaye (2007) and Ghaya
(2011). These models have been developed at the
end of the third and in the fourth period of research
in this area. Ghaya (2011) has developed an
integrative model as an end result of an extensive
literature review. On the other hand, the model
developed by Drew and Kaye (2007) is an output
of their research and broad experience. The

implications of the model developed by Ghaya
(2011) are more theoretical, while the model of
Drew and Kaye (2007), besides the theoretical
contribution, also has significant practical value.
Ghaya (2011) defines boards’ strategic
involvement as job (work) involvement. Ghaya’s
(2011) model includes the internal factors and
environment characteristics as determinants of
boards’ strategic involvement. This conceptual
framework also, classifies the results of the boards’

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

13

14

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

strategic involvement in two groups: corporate
performances (measured by both quantitative and
qualitative indicators) and results related to quality
of strategic decisions.
On the other side, the model developed by
Drew and Kaye (2007) includes: clear
identification of responsibilities in the strategic
process, analysis of the agenda setting process and
suitable attention management, by using the
Strategic scorecard. Drew and Kaye (2007) argue
that the responsibilities of the boards include:
monitoring of implementation, strategic review
and learning. For achieving a higher level of
directors’ accountability, Drew and Kaye (2007)
propose implementing the Strategic scorecard. The
Strategic scorecard has four quadrants. The first
quadrant refers to the boards’ attention on the
strategy development, i.e. the boards’ involvement
in developing companies’ vision, mission, goals,
strategies and the identification of the critical
success factors. The second quadrant focuses on
boards’ involvement in generating strategic
alternatives for scope changes and offering
directions for growth (Drew & Kaye, 2007). The
third quadrant refers to boards’ involvement in
strategic implementation (developing plans,

programs and selecting projects). Finally, the
fourth quadrant focuses on boards’ involvement in
managing strategic risks (properly assessing risks
and creating contingency/recovery plans). The use
of the Strategic Scorecard enables examination of
the key aspects in strategic management, creates a
better climate for communication and learning by
board members and is suitable for customization
(Drew & Kaye, 2007).
The two integrative models differ by their goal
in analysing the concept, the attention on the
definition of the concept and the elements
included. Ghaya (2011), to create the model,
conducts an in-depth analysis of the theoretical
debate and focuses on offering an exhaustive
definition of the concept. On the other side, Drew
and Kaye (2007) focus more on explaining the
advantages and the use of the Balance scorecard
and on explaining the key features of the Strategic
scorecard. Their goal is designing a tool than can
enhance boards’ strategic involvement and make
directors more accountable in performing their
strategic tasks. The integrative models’
characteristics are presented in Table 3.

Table 3 Comparison of integrative models of boards’ strategic involvement
Models’ elements
Definition of boards’ involvement in
strategic decision-making
Drew
and
Kaye (2007)

1.
2.
3.

Ghaya (2011)

1.
2.
4.

Expected outcomes

Clear identification of responsibilities in
the process;
Analysis of the agenda setting issues and
suitable attention management;
Using a framework for managing boards’
strategic involvement (Strategic
scorecard)

Defining
responsibilities
within
strategy process and its contribution
for strategic positioning, developing
strategic
options,
strategy
implementation
and
analyzing
strategic risks.

Expected impact on boards’
effectiveness and organizational
performances.

Antecedents of boards’ involvement in
strategic decision-making;
Key activities for boards’ strategic
involvement;
Effects of boards’ strategic involvement.

Boards’ job involvement

Expected effects of boards’
strategic
involvement
for
organizational
performances
(measured by using qualitative and
quantitative measures) and for the
decisions’ quality.

Source: the authors’ construction

2.2. Current topics

The analysis of the forty-eight articles published in
the period 2019-2023, selected as described in the
section Methodology, resulted in identification of
two broad topics, that were combined in some
articles, and which have several sub-topics. In
general, each article was classified in one of the
broad topics (or so called first-level subtopics) we

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

have identified. The first board topic is “strategic
involvement” and the second one is “strategic
performance”. For the purposes of this literature
review, we define the general boards’ strategic
involvement as a topic that includes all the studies
related to analysis of boards’ participation and
influence (through several practices, processes and
mechanisms) on the overall strategic process
(strategy formulation, implementation and

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

strategic control), as well as in planning and
implementing strategic change (the components of
the definition of boards’ strategic involvement, as
proposed by different authors are presented in
Figure 2). The second topic, “strategic
performance” includes all the studies that
investigate the relation of boards’ characteristics,
activities and/or tasks, with firm-level strategic
and/or financial performance, or boards’ impact on
strategic organizational performance. The second
topic is more recently developed, most of all as a
result of the identified gap within the existing
literature on the mechanisms that connect boards
strategic thinking and acting with achieving higher
organizational performances. The analysis of the
strategic performance on boards, per se, is not
sufficient. Furthermore, the topics or issues in
which boards take active participation in the past
few decades have dramatically changed because of
the changes in the organizational priorities
(sustainability become a top priority), which lead
to adjustment in this research area, and the
development of this first-level subtopic.
Out of the 48 articles we have analysed, 37 are
categorized in the first main topic – strategic
involvement, while 11 area categorized in the
second main topic – strategic performance. In the

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

first round of analysis, 4 articles were classified in
the both first-level subtopics, and after iterated
analysis those articles were classified in one of the
identified first-level subtopics.
Within the two (2) board topics (or first-level
subtopics), we have identified several subtopics (or
second-level subtopics). The first broad topic
“strategic involvement” includes three subtopics:
strategic human resource management (n=19),
board processes (n=11), and sustainability (n=7).
The second main topic, so-called “strategic
performance”, includes articles that are categorized
in the following three (3) subtopics: sustainable
performance, which includes articles investigating
the influence of board characteristics and activities
on long-term financial, social, and environmental
performance (n=7); financial performance that
includes articles that investigate the impact of
boards characteristics and activities only on the
organizations’ financial performance (n=3) and
other performance. In the last subtopic we have
classified one article that investigates other type of
strategic
organizational
performance
(the
organizations’ advocacy performance). The
identified first level and second level sub-topics are
presented in Figure 3.

Figure 2 Components of boards’ strategic involvement

Source: the authors’ construction

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

15

16

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

Figure 3 Boards’ strategic involvement – topics and subtopics identified in semi-structured literature review

Source: the authors’ construction

The most significant subtopic in the strategic
involvement main topic is the topic strategic
human resource management. In this subtopic we
have included the articles that investigate the issues
related to recruiting and selecting board members
(the succession of board members and CEOs, n=7),
the importance of boards human capital (n=4) and
strategic leadership within the board and of the
board as a group (n=6). Separately, we are also
going to discuss the findings related to boards’
involvement in issues related to workplace safety
(Lornudd et al., 2021) and DEI (Morgan et al.,
2021).
The recruiting and selection processes are one
of the most investigated subtopics in boards’
involvement in strategic human resource
management. Namely, some authors are interested
in the determinants of boards’ gender diversity
(Mikkonen et al., 2021; Blommaert & Van der
Brink, 2020; and Mensi-Klarbach & Seierstad,

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

2020), while others are interested whether the
negative performance feedback influences board
diversity in terms of their expertise (Jung et al.,
2023). Jung et al. (2023) present evidence that the
negative performance feedback leads to increased
board expertise diversity, regardless of the other
demographic characteristic of the boards’ member
candidates. Zenou et al. (2020) contribute by
emphasising the importance of the boards’
recruitment process and argue that this process
represents a specific strategic answer that should
be implemented properly in order to provide the
expected outcomes. Additionally, Zenou et al.
(2020) suggest that board diversity does not
include only the board members’ demographic
characteristics and argument that board members’
education, expertise and networks are critical for
implementing innovation. Therefore, these authors
focus on the human capital requirements as a
criterion for selecting new board members. The

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

other two articles within this subgroup investigate
the CEO succession process from strategic change
perspective (Zhu et al., 2020) and from the
resource availability perspective (Campopiano et
al., 2020). Zhu et al. (2020) present evidence that
insider CEOs prioritize strategic change in
situation in which they have prior board experience
in other companies. Therefore, this study has
significant theoretical and practical implications,
since it attempts to identify how CEOs’ strategic
priorities are shaped. On the other hand,
Campopiano et al. (2020) argued that CEO human
capital represents a significant organizational
resource, even in a family company, and that its
importance may diminish the influence of the
intentions for appointing a family member as CEO.
However, this conclusion largely depends on the
role of competitive strategic resources and the
extent of family involvement in the management.
The other subtopic, called human capital,
includes the articles that research the influence of
boards’ members human capital on the
organization strategy formulation (Aber &
Torchia, 2019; Fernandez & Sundaramurthy, 2020;
Calabrò et al., 2021) and the overall strategic
process (Klarner et al., 2021). Aber and Torchia
(2019) investigate the relation between boards’
managerial human capital (using the perspectives
of the upper echelon and dynamic managerial
capabilities) and boards’ involvement in strategic
change. Their results have showed that boards’
managerial human capital have positive impact on
the boards’ capabilities and through them on the
preparation of decisions that lead to strategic
change. Fernandez and Sundaramurthy (2020)
have argued that in formulation of international
merger and acquisition strategy, the boards’
international experience and expertise can be used
only when the CEO has his/her own international
experience. Calabrò et al. (2021) have investigated
the association between boards’ family members’
human capital and innovation strategy. Klarner et
al. (2021) have introduced the capabilities-based
view of boards’ actions and imply that boards’
members capabilities are crucial for executing the
activities that are integrated in the boards’ strategic
role. In the capabilities-based view of boards’
actions, the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other
characteristics (KSAO) of board members are
crucial for fulfilling boards’ roles. In their
conceptual framework, Klarner et al. (2021)
distinguish 3 types of KSAOs: task-specific, teamgeneric and firm-specific KSAOs. By introducing
this approach Klarner et al. (2021) imply that

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

boards’ work is an organizational issue that should
be addressed by using the same approaches that are
used for researching other phenomena within
organizations.
Closely related to the human capital research
issues are those related to strategic leadership.
Namely, within this group we have included the
articles that are investigating which managerial or
leadership capabilities should be demonstrated by
the board members (especially board chair) for
achieving a higher level of boards’ strategic
involvement (Castellanos & George, 2020;
Luciano et al., 2020; Nahum & Carnelli, 2019;
Morais et al., 2020; Kanadli et al., 2020; Sidhu et
al., 2021). Castellanos and George (2020)
distinguish the terms strategic leadership and
strategic management and suggest that CEOs are
more occupied in the activities related to strategic
management, while the whole board (as a team)
should be engaged in practicing strategic
leadership. Luciano et al. (2020), on the other hand,
analyse the board and top management team as a
strategic-oriented multiteam system or a strategic
leadership system and theorize that fulfilling the
boards’ strategic role implies that boards are
working as part of this kind of systems.
Furthermore, Luciano et al. (2020) stress that
boards’ effectiveness in fulfilling this task depends
on boards’ capacity to work independently and
interdependently with the top management team on
strategic management. On the other side, Nahum
and Carnelli (2019) attempt to investigate the
reasons for differences in directors’ individual
participation in the strategic process. The findings
presented by Nahum and Carnelli (2019) suggest
that boards’ leadership style (their sources and
influence on board dynamics) is a key predictor of
directors’ individual contribution in strategy. One
of the main conclusions in the Nahum and Carnelli
(2019) study is that directors increase their lever of
strategic decision-making involvement when board
chairs’ influence is based on expertise and referent
power and when he displays a professional, nonego driven and open-minded behaviour. Morais et
al. (2019) investigating the consequences of
discontinuous change as a predictor of the type of
leadership demonstrated by the board chair.
Namely, Morais et al. (2019) concluded that when
the organization is faced with relational internal
problems because of disruptive change, the board
chair is more likely to demonstrate relational
leadership, while when faced with relational
external problems the chairman and CEO are both
more prone to demonstrating disruptive leadership.

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

17

18

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

On the other side, if the problems are less complex
(performance changes or new products/market are
identified) the adoption of transformational and
entrepreneurial leadership style is more likely
(Morais et al., 2019). Kanadli et al. (2020) argue
that directors’ job-diversity can increase board
strategic involvement only when the chairperson is
capable of exercising leadership behaviour. To be
specific, when the chairpersons are capable of
displaying their talents during board meetings,
when they achieve higher levels of leadership
efficacy and when they have previous experience
as a CEO, it is more likely that the board is going
to increase its participation in the strategic process.
Findings of Sidhu et al. (2021) indicate that the
leadership demonstrated by a female chairperson
has the ability to reverse the negative impact that
greater board gender diversity has on introducing
novel strategies. Finally, Calabrò et al. (2021)
suggest that family members in family-owned
companies’ boards display specific type of
strategic leadership that is focused on greater
valorisation of the human capital and therefore
creates an environment that stimulates innovation.
In this second-level subgroup, we also include
articles that discuss the boards’ strategic
involvement in DEI initiatives (Morgan et al.,
2021) and issues related to human resource
workplace safety (Lornudd et al., 2021). Morgan et
al. (2021) argue that boards have to understand the
interests of several groups of shareholders and that
they have the capability and authority to work on
designing DEI related policies and procedures.
Meanwhile, Lornudd et al. (2021) argue that the
boardroom represents a “social arena”, and that
board members have significant impact on CEOs’
priorities and that are able to impose the strategic
and healthy issues as a strategic imperative. These
authors introduce the term “strategic health and
safety” and suggest that organizational health and
safety issues should represent a top-level board
priority. Lornudd et al. (2021) support this thesis
with the argument that health and safety issues
affect employee’s well-being and in turn their
productivity and that are important for building the
employer brand.
Board processes also represent one of the secondlevel subtopics, which includes the articles
investigating boards’ dynamics, roles, and tasks, as
well as board processes and practices, and boards
overall effectiveness. Regarding boards’ strategic
involvement, Bezemer et al. (2023) have identified
key component/elements that this concept
comprises: boards’ strategic-decision making,

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

other boards decisions and activities tightly related
to strategic decision-making (such as: executive
compensation, CSR disclosure, joint venture
activities, CEO strategic behaviour, etc.) which
constitute boards’ strategic role, determinants of
boards’ strategic involvement, and boards’
strategic performance (or effectiveness in
executing the strategic role). The findings of
Benzemer et al. (2023) indicate that in the period
between 2008 and 2020 most of the scholars have
focused on analysing boards’ strategic
performance (boards’ effectiveness in executing
the strategic role). However, focusing only on
boards’ roles and processes and their effectiveness
is not sufficient if it cannot be aligned with the
overall organizational performances. SlomkaGolebiovska et al. (2023) argue that the increased
presence of women in Italian boards has an effect
on the way the strategic tasks are executed. One of
the conclusions in this study is that women are
more critical when accessing organizational
performance, and more willing to articulate their
views during meetings since they are less likely to
be developed in environments in which the CEO
and other board members have been building their
career path. Beshlawy and Ardroumli (2021) are
researching boards’ decision-making process and
turbulent times. Boards’ decision-making process
is just one of the processes that boards’ strategic
involvement includes. However, although episodic
in nature (Klarner et al., 2021), it is essential in
strategy formulation and taking corrective action
when necessary. The findings of Beshlawy and
Ardroumli (2021) indicate that boards’ strategic
decision-making processes has significantly
changed after the 2008, and that boards’ practices
related to making strategic choices have evolved.
Namely, board members have become more aware
of the importance of this process and more
conscious in analysis of the available alternatives.
Furthermore, they find it necessary to distinguish
their
responsibilities
and
managements’
responsibilities in this process (Beshlawy and
Ardroumli, 2021). Squires and Elnahla (2020)
depict boards’ roles from the agency and
stakeholder theory aspects. The integration of these
two perspectives in explaining boards’ roles is one
of the most significant contributions of this study.
The concept proposed by Squires and Elnahla
(2020) incorporates all tasks related to strategy in
the so-called service role. Hamidi and Machold
(2020) investigate boards’ task related to value cocreation and introduce the concept of so-called
service-dominated logic. In the service-dominated

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

logic as a concept, Hamidi and Machold (2020)
highlight the importance of service, collaboration
and systems thinking in the value creation process
(which in broader context refers to the strategic
process). Similarly, with the previous authors point
to the primacy of the servant role over the strategic
board role. However, the findings in our research,
and especially the models designed to deepen the
understanding of the concept of boards’ strategic
involvement, firmly argument the need for separate
analysis of the board’s strategic role. Looking for
the answer to the question “what boards do/should
do”, Boivie et al. (2021, p. 1), have found that
“directors view themselves as strategic partners
with their firms’ executives”. Boivie et al. (2021)
make theoretical contribution by using qualitative
research methods and argument that board
members’ main duty is to be a strategic partner in
the value creation process. The term strategic
partner assumes that board members are constantly
focused on the organizations’ strategies, the
changes in the external and internal environment,
and their contribution to the value creation process
(Boivie et al., 2020), which makes this the most
important boards’ function. Watson and Ireland
(2020), on the other hand, investigate which
processes and practices are included in the boards’
“strategizing” task. According, to Watson and
Ireland (2020) the term ‘strategizing’ or setting
strategic direction includes all the processes related
to strategic planning, and discussions generated on
board meetings and in informal settings related to
making the appropriate strategies choices,
understanding ambiguities and managing them
towards favourable outcomes. Therefore, boards’
strategizing represents a group work and requires
mobilization of all the resources available to
directors. Goldstein (2022) also introduces an
interesting perspective by analysing the strategic
mapping process and boards’ and managements’
role in it. Goldstein’s (2022) contribution in this
research area is in the confirmation that board
members and top management teams are included
in the process of setting the organizations’ strategic
direction and creating the tools for implementation
(or creating the strategic map). The use of these
tools enables the companies’ strategists to align the
interest of different groups of stakeholders, to
communicate the strategy within the organization
properly and to measure the achievements.
Consequently, we can conclude that the boards’
strategizing task also includes the activities related
to developing the strategic map, following strategy
execution, and discussing the organizational

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

performances. The involvement of both teams
included in the so-called strategic leadership
system in the process of ‘depicting the strategy’ is
expected to have positive impact on fulfilling the
task related to strategy executions, as well as
monitoring. Findings of Hermanson et al. (2020)
indicate that if the tensions in the managementdirectors relation are higher, then boards require
more formal approach to strategic planning,
although this leads to creation of certain paradoxes
in boards’ functioning. Finally, Hermanson et al.
(2020), conclude that the organizations’ size and
board members’ experience are key factors for
determining which approach to strategic planning
is going to be acceptable for the board. Klarner et
al. (2020) analyse boards’ involvement only in a
particular strategic aspect – innovation. These
authors’ contribution is in the analysis of the nature
of directors’ involvement in innovation and the
synthesis of its key dimensions: direction, timing,
and formality. Klarner et al. (2020) have identified
two types of boards’ strategic involvement:
differentiated and structured board involvement.
They describe the differentiated board involvement
as involvement that occurs in spontaneous
interaction, in different timing and enables sharing
different types of information and knowledge,
while the structured board involvement is one
characterized by higher formality, which implies
sharing certain type of expertise/knowledge in
fixed and pre-planned meetings. Minciullo and
Pedrini (2019) research the predictors and
consequences of boards’ strategic involvement on
a sample of non-profit organizations. Their
findings indicate that the higher level of
bureaucratic control from the founding
organization leads to increased levels of directors’
involvement in all boards’ tasks and that the main
consequence of the increased boards involvement
is higher organizational effectiveness.
Regarding the next second-level subtopic,
sustainability, it can be noted that this concept has
emerged in the end of the 80-ties and in the past
five years its popularity has increased, due to the
challenges modern societies face. Contemplating
on corporate sustainability research, Bergman et al.
(2017) have constructed a typology that enables
deeper understanding of all the layers that the
concept embodies. Namely, Bergman et al. (2017)
distinguish between three types of corporate
sustainability and nine subtypes: 1. corporate
sustainability in relation with corporate
responsibility;
2.
mono-focal
corporate
sustainability; 3. inclusive approaches to corporate

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

19

20

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

sustainability. For our research purposes, we argue
that the mono-focal corporate sustainability, which
analyses this concept as a strategy, is the most
relevant subtype. This type of corporate
sustainability highlights the activities related to
defining
sustainability
priorities,
its
implementation and communication, and the
importance of the directors’ capability for
implementing the strategies that would make the
organization sustainable (Bergman et al., 2017).
However, some authors investigate corporate
sustainability in relation to the concept of corporate
social responsibility. Most of the articles classified
within this topic address the social and
environmental aspects (Gaio & Concalves, 2022;
Yarram and Adapa, 2021; Peng et al., 2021; and
Issa and Bensalm, 2022), while Kanadli et al.
(2022), Amorelli and Garcia-Sanchez (2020) and
Amorelli and Garcia-Sanchez (2023) investigate
all three aspects of sustainability as a strategy or
strategic activities upon which boards can act. Gaio
and Cancelves (2022) investigate the relation
between board gender diversity and the adoption of
the corporate social responsibility concept, and
their findings indicate that the larger proportion of
women in the board is related to the adoption of the
CRS practices that lead to the creation of more
sustainable companies. Yarram and Adapa (2021)
argue that the mere presence of one woman in a
board is not sufficient for influencing the
company’s strategy, and in particular for
influencing the adoption of the CSR practices.
Their findings support the existence of the effect of
tokenism and argue that women are exposed to the
performance pressure. Therefore, the adoption of
the CSR practices is related to board gender
diversity, but one female director cannot have the
influence that several women would have. Peng et
al. (2021) are interested in investigating the
determinants of corporate social responsibility
practices in multinational companies. The results
presented by Peng et al. (2021) indicate that
boards’ gender diversity is positively related to
environmental and social disclosure, and that
tenure diversity is positively related to social
disclosures of the multinational companies. Issa
and Bensalem (2022) suggest that boards’ gender
diversity has an impact on eco-innovation, and that
this impact is indirect, through the adoption of the
CRS strategy. On the other hand, Kanadli et al.
(2022) have conducted a literature review in which
they conclude that women directors are more
sensitive to the issues related to all three aspects of
sustainability
(economic,
social
and

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

environmental) and that their ability to influence
board agenda depend on boards’ openness and its
structural leadership (board chair). Furthermore,
Amorelli and Garcia-Sanchez (2023) concluded
that companies with higher representation of
women in their boards are more likely to adopt
sustainable practices and that women can give
significant insight in the debates related to
sustainability as a strategy. In general, it can be
noted that most of the studies categorized under
this second-level subtopic are focused on
investigating the factors that lead to greater boards’
involvement in strategic decisions regarding
sustainability, and especially in investigating the
effects of the boards’ gender diversity. The
findings of Amorelli and Garcia-Sanchez (2020)
indicate that organizations are more prone to
implement strategies improving CRS disclosure if
female presence on the board is stronger.
Strategic performance is the second main topic
(or first-level subtopic) within this research area
that has been gaining significant popularity in the
past 5 years. Although the number of articles
classified in strategic performance subtopic is
smaller (n=9) it gives significant insights regarding
the development of the future research agenda.
According to our understanding, and for the
purposes of this study, we define sustainable
performance as a system of measures of the
organizations’ financial results, and the measures
of the effect of corporate social responsibility
activities and strategies on organizations’
reputation and finally, financial performance.
Therefore, we can conclude that these articles
investigate the concept of sustainability from the
triple bottom line (TBL) perspective (also
described by Bergman et al. 2017 as one of the nine
subtypes of sustainability), and analyse how
boards’ characteristics and processes influence
corporate sustainability performance. In a study of
UK listed companies in the period between 2009
and 2016, Orazalin (2019) found that the existence
of sustainability committees within the boards’
structure can increase the effectiveness of
companies’
sustainability
strategy,
and
consequently has a positive impact on
organizations’ sustainable performance. On the
other hand, Orazalin and Baydauletov (2020)
examine the impact of corporate social
responsibility strategy on organizations’ social and
environmental performance, and include board
gender diversity as a moderator of this relation.
Orazalin and Baydauletov (2020) concluded that
corporate social responsibility strategy and board

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

gender diversity are positively related to corporate
social and environmental performance, and that the
positive relation between CSR strategy and
environmental
performance
is
negatively
moderated by board gender diversity. Similarly,
Moussa et al. (2019) have found evidence that
suggest that boards have direct and indirect impact
on organizations environmental performance (or
carbon performance in particular) and that in this
relation the mediating role of the carbon strategy is
crucial. Naciti (2019), on the other hand,
investigated the influence of board diversity,
independence and CEO duality on organizations’
sustainability performance and concluded that
higher level of boards’ diversity and the separation
of CEO and board chair role are positively related
to the sustainability performance components,
while greater board independence is negatively
related to sustainability performance. Chams and
Garcia-Blandon (2019) study the effect of several
board structural characteristics on organizations’
overall sustainable performance. Their findings
indicate that board size, number of board
committees and board gender diversity are
positively related with organizations’ sustainable
performance and that the relation between board
age and organizations sustainable performance is
curvilinear. Martinez-Jimenez et al. (2019) have
investigated how boards gender diversity and
board effectives influence business performance
(in which they include indicators regarding
beneficial consequences, perceived quality,
competitive advantage, survival of the company)
and have concluded that there is a positive and
statistically significant relation between board
effectiveness and business performance, although
they could not identify positive and statistically
significant relation between board gender diversity
and board effectiveness or business performance.
Bannò et al. (2021) suggest that board gender
diversity impact organizations sustainable
activities (including sustainable disclosure) and
through them the organizations sustainable
performance, which in turn determines firm
performance and value. Their research indicates
that the relation between boards’ gender diversity
and organizations’ overall sustainability is
mediated by several variables.
The second group of articles examines the relation
of boards’ characteristics and strategies with
organizations’ financial performance. Carmo et al.
(2022) found that the positive effect of female
directors on companies’ financial performance is
evident only when a critical mass of women is

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

reached. Baghdadi et al. (2020) concluded that
there is a positive and statistically significant
association
between
board
composition
(independence and impartiality) and corporate
default risk. Bayo-Moriones et al. (2020) have
studied the effect of completive strategy on the
performance system (for assessing performance on
individual level, e.g. the performance of the
employees) and their join influence on the
organizational performance. Bayo-Moriones et al.
(2020) findings indicate that the proper alignment
of corporate strategy with the performance
appraisal system has positive and statistically
significant relation with several measures of
financial performance (such as, ROE and sales per
employee).
Therefore,
designing
proper
performance appraisal system for the adopted
completive strategy can lead to improved
organizational performance.
And the last paper that is included in this topic –
strategic performance is the one that analysis the
determinants of the organizations’ advocacy
performance (which represents their ability to
influence citizens; opinions, media agendas,
political parties’ and politicians’ agendas,
parliamentary decisions and governmental
decisions). The study that address this issue was
developed by Vehka and Vesa (2023) on a sample
of 507 board member in 140 associations (or
interest organizations). Vehka and Vesa (2023)
have found that there is a positive relation between
board
meetings,
board
members’
(or
managements’) political experience and most
importantly boards performance in strategic task
with the organizations advocacy performance.
Most of the findings in the paper within this firstlevel subtopic (strategic performance) indicate that
board impact on organizations performance largely
depends on their ability for effective execution of
their strategic task and for formulating strategies
(completive strategies, CRS strategies, or carbon
strategies) that highlight the importance of certain
type of performance (Orazalin, 2019; Orazalin &
Baydauletov, 2020; Moussa et al., 2019; BayoMoriones et al., 2020; Vehka and Vesa, 2023).
2.3. Future research agenda

Although the boards’ strategic involvement has
been analysed in numerous papers with the
application of different approaches, some aspects
seem to remain not sufficiently researched. For
example, it is evident that there is a lack of models
on boards’ strategic involvement in two-tier boards
system. Also, some of the models are designed to

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

21

22

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

answer the question how boards fulfil their
strategic role (Zahra & Pearce II, 1990; Judge and
Zheithaml, 1992, Forbes and Milliken, 1999),
while others focus on the question how directors
fulfil their strategic role (McNulty & Pettigrew,
1999; Rindova, 1999). Those models that
incorporate both levels of involvement (the
strategic involvement of boards as a group and of
directors as individuals, such as the works of Pye
and Camm, 2003; Drew and Kaye, 2007; Ghaya,
2011) are mostly conceptual and prescriptive, and
on individual level cover only strategic
involvement of non-executive directors (Pye and
Camm, 2003) or strategic involvement of
executive directors (Drew and Kaye, 2007). Some
of the relations/conclusions in the conceptual
models should be further empirically tested.
Additionally, none of the models that focus on
directors’ strategic involvement as individual,
incorporates the theoretical propositions of the
literature related to employee engagement,
directly.
Therefore, our recommendation regarding
future research on models of boards’ strategic
involvement should focus on generating models
that incorporate the theoretical propositions of the
theories on employee engagement, where the term
involvement is clearly defined, and models that
incorporate both levels of the concept of boards’
strategic involvement (the strategic involvement of
boards as groups and of directors as individuals).
Furthermore, future research should focus on
generating models that explain how both boards
(the management and the supervisory board) fulfil
their strategic role in the two-tier board system.
Additionally, by synthetizing the most
researched subtopics within the main topic boards’ strategic involvement, we suggest that
further studies on this topic should focus on
answering the following questions:
I.
In relation to the strategic human resource
management sub-topic: 1. How do boards
select new directors? 2. Which criteria are
used for selecting new directors? 3. How do
boards prepare the organization for CEO
change? 4. How do boards manage the
situation in case of CEO turnover? 5. How
can all board members demonstrate
strategic leadership and when is it
expected?
II.
In relation to board processes sub-topic:
1. Does directors’ impact on strategy differ
in accordance with their participation in the
ownership structure? 2. How do boards in

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

III.

IV.

organizations with two-tier board system
collaborate in fulfilling the strategic role?
3. What can boards do to create a context
that support and enhance the strategic
involvement of all their members? 4. Can
the increased level of formalization of
several strategy related processes lead to
greater board strategic involvement?
In relation to sustainability: 1. How do
board members understand sustainability,
as a strategy or as a concept related to
CSR? 2. Does the adoption of sustainability
as a strategy by the board lead to achieving
sustainable organizational performance?
In relation to strategic organizational
performance (as a first level sub-topic):
1. How do boards’ members define
sustainable organizational performance?
2. How and when should boards initiate the
discussion regarding achieving a level of
performance (financial, social, and
environmental) that is sustainable in the
long run? 3. When are boards in the
position to influence strategic choices in
order to ensure the achievement of
sustainable organizational performance?

Discussion
In order to achieve the paper’s purposes, we
conducted an integrative literature review and a
semi-systematic literature review, whose insights
are reported in the section Key findings. The main
outputs of the integrative literature review are the
identification of the core models that shape the
foundations in this research area and the
proposition of their classification. The core models
on boards’ strategic involvement are: the model of
Zahra and Pearce II (1990), the model of Judge and
Zeithaml (1992), the model of McNulty and
Pettigrew (1999), the model of Forbes and Milliken
(1999), the Rindovas’ model (1999), the model
developed by Pye and Camm (2003), the model
developed by Drew and Kaye (2007) and the
Ghayas’ model (2011). The models were classified
in the following three groups: generic (basic or
general) models, behavioural models, and
integrative models. In the group of generic (basic)
models we included the models developed at the
beginning of the second period of the evolution of
thought, in which scientific approaches were used
for addressing these issues for the first-time. These
models try to generate a comprehensive definition
of the concept and investigate the relation of
boards’ strategic involvement and organizational

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

performance. The second group of models, the
behaviour models, were developed at the end of the
second period of the evolution of thought in this
area, incorporate the cognitive approach in the
research of boards’ strategic involvement
(Rindova, 1999) and broadly investigate boards’
processes and dynamics (McNulty & Petigrew,
1999; Forbes and Milliken, 1999; Pye and Camm,
2003). These models also analyse the relation of
boards’ strategic involvement with decisionquality (Ridova, 1999) and organizational
performance (McNulty & Petigrew, 1999; Forbes
and Milliken, 1999; Pye and Camm, 2003). The
last groups of models are the so-called integrative
models that summarise the previous knowledge on
boards’ strategic involvement and add the
stakeholder theory postulates in the theoretical
explanation. In this group we have classified the
model developed by Drew and Kaye (2007) and
Ghaya (2011).
To understand how the research on boards’
strategic involvement has evolved over time we
conducted a semi-structured literature review and
identified the main subtopics in this area in the
period between 2019 and 2023. According to the
thematic analysis of 48 research papers published
in journals indexed in Scopus and SCI in the period
between 2019 and 2023, we have identified the
following sub-topics: strategic involvement which
includes studies on issues related to strategic
human resource management, board processes, and
sustainability; and strategic organizational
performance, which includes research on the
relation of boards’ strategic involvement with
financial performance, the relationship of boards’
strategic
involvement
with
sustainable
performance and with other types of organizational
performance (such as advocacy performance). The
main trends within the second level subtopics,
especially the finding in the studies related to
issues in the area of strategic human resource
management and sustainability and sustainable
organizational performance are expected to shape
the future research agenda in this area.

Conclusion
In conclusion, we can suggest that this paper has
achieved the defined aim by answering the three
research questions defined in the introduction.
Regarding the question “Which are the main
elements of the concept of boards’ strategic
involvement?” we conclude that it includes
research on: the understanding of the boards’
strategic role, the theories that explain the strategic

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

process or the strategic management as
organizational process, the link of the strategic
management
process
with
organizational
performance and sustainability, boards’ process
and working style as a group, the understanding
about directors’ (managerial) cognition and its link
to strategic management, and the understanding of
the involvement as construct that has been
researched through the lens of the employee
engagement theories.
Regarding the question related to the
foundation of this topic, we have identified that the
core of the concept consists of eight models that
deconstruct different aspects of the concepts’
elements. Namely, after defining the boards’
strategic role (in their work published in 1989),
Zahra and Perce II (1990) analyze the factors that
determine boards’ strategic involvement. Judge
and Zeithmal (1992) focus on the antecedents of
boards’ strategic involvement, as well as on the
impact of boards’ strategic involvement on
organizational financial performance. McNultty
and Pettigrew (1999) focus on the impact of
boards’ chairman and non-executive directors on
the strategic process. Rindova (1999) incorporates
the cognitive perspective in the research on this
topic and assumes that directors’ participation is
directly related to decision quality. Pye and Camm
(2003) focus on researching the boards’ strategic
involvement of the board as a group, and of the
non-executive directors, and analyze the contextual
factors influencing boards’ strategic involvement.
Relying on the literature on Balanced Scorecard,
Drew and Kaye (2007) developed the Strategic
Scorecard as a tool for measuring boards’
involvement in the strategy making processes.
Ghaya (2011) united the findings in the existing
literature and created a new integrative model on
boards’ strategic involvement.
Regarding the third question, we can conclude
that while at the beginning of the 1990s the models
of boards’ strategic involvement address the
question how boards fulfill their strategic role
(Zahra & Pearce II, 1990; Judge & Zeithmal,
1992), at the end of the 1990s, with the
proliferation of the so-called behavioral models on
boards’ strategic involvement, the focus shifted
and directors’ strategic involvement also gained
attention (McNulty & Petigrew, 1999; Rindova,
1999; Pye & Camm, 2003). In the first decade of
the 21st century the main interest was directed
towards the issues related to board effectiveness, as
visible from the Drew and Kaye (2007) model
which focuses on developing a tool for measuring

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

23

24

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

how boards perform their strategic role. However,
at the beginning of the second decade of the 21st
century, the focus is on the research of the impact
of boards’ strategic involvement on the different
types of organizational performance, as proposed
by Ghaya (2011). Namely, Ghaya (2011) argues
that boards’ strategic involvement is related to
organizations’ strategic decisions (their origin,
nature, importance, rapidity, and novelty), and
different quantitative indicators (financial
performance indicators) and qualitative indicators
(achievement of strategic objectives, position of
the company in the market, firm survival, product
cost control, serenity of the social climate) of
corporate performance. At the end of the second
decade of the 21st century and the beginning of the
third, most of the research on boards’ strategic
involvement relates to the issues of strategic
human resource management (such as the practices
for recruiting and selecting board members, CEO
succession, the importance of the human capital
and what strategic leadership includes etc.) and
how boards’ strategic involvement can contribute
to
generating
sustainable
organizational
performance.
As elaborated in the introduction the main
motivation for writing this paper was to identify
what constitutes the foundation of this concept and
how the research on this topic has evolved over
time. We may conclude that by assessing the
existing literature critically, by classifying
fundamental works in this research area and by
systemizing the key finding in the recent research
we have uncovered most of the elements of the
concept, explained some of the existing
ambiguities and set the directions for future
research.
Although we have fulfilled the paper’s aim and
answered the key research questions, we should
also note that the study has several limitations.
Firstly, the study incorporates only articles
published in English and most of them written by
authors from the USA and Western European
countries. Secondly, although we elaborate how
the discourse on the topic has changed in the past
few decades, we do not propose a new conceptual
framework since that was not the purpose of this
study and we believe that this should be done in
future research. The purpose of this study was to
assess the existing literature critically, interpret the
understanding of the elements of the concept and
identify the ongoing trends in the research on this
topic.

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

References
Åberg, C. & Torchia, M. (2019). Do boards of directors
foster strategic change? A dynamic managerial
capabilities perspective. Journal of Management and
Governance, 24, 655-684.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10997-019-09462-4
Amorelli, M. F. & García-Sánchez, I. M. (2020). Trends in
the dynamic evolution of board gender diversity and
corporate social responsibility. Corporate Social
Responsibility and Environmental Management, 28(2),
537-554.
https://doi.org/10.1002/csr.2079
Amorelli, M. F. & García-Sánchez, I. M. (2023). Leadership
in heels: women on boards and sustainability in times of
COVID-19. Corporate Social Responsibility and
Environmental Management, 30(4), 1987-2010.
https://doi.org/10.1002/csr.2469
Baghdadi, G. A., Nguyen, L. H. G. & Podolski, E. J. (2020).
Board cooption and default risk, Journal of Corporate
Finance, 64, 101703.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcorpfin.2020.101703
Bannò, M., Filippi, E. & Trento, S. (2023). Women in top
echelon positions and their effects on sustainability: a
review, synthesis and future research agenda. Journal
of Management and Governance, 27, 181–251.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10997-021-09604-7
Bayo-Moriones, A., Galdon-Sanchez, J. E., & Martinez-deMorentin, S. (2021). Business strategy, performance
appraisal and organizational results. Personnel Review,
50(2), 515-534.
https://doi.org/10.1108/PR-09-2019-0498
Bergman, M. M., Bergman, Z., & Berger, L. (2017). An
empirical exploration, typology, and definition of
corporate sustainability. Sustainability, 9(5). 753-766.
https://doi.org/10.3390/su9050753
Beshlawy, H. E. & Ardroumli, S. (2021). Board dynamics
and decision-making in turbulent times. Corporate
Governance and Organizational Behavior Review, 5(1),
57-68.
https://doi.org/10.22495/cgobrv5i1p6
Bezemer, P. J., Pugliese, A., Nicholson, G. & Zattoni, A.
(2023). Toward a synthesis of the board-strategy
relationship: a literature review and future research
agenda. Corporate Governance: an International
review, 31(1),178-197.
https://doi.org/10.1111/corg.12481
Blommaert, L., & Van den Brink, M. (2020). Gender equality
in appointments of board members: the role of multiple
actors and their dynamics. European Mangement
Review, 17(3), 633-647.
https://doi.org/10.1111/emre.12381
Boivie, S., Withers, M. C., Graffin, S. D. & Corley, K. G.
(2021). Corporate directors' implicit theories of the roles
and duties of boards. Strategic Management Journal,
42(9), 1662-1695.
https://doi.org/10.1002/smj.3320
Braisby, N. & Gellatly, A. (2005). Cognitive pshychology.,
London, UK: Oxford University Press.
Calabrò, A., Torchia, M., Jimenez, D.G. & Kraus, S.
(2021). The role of human capital on family firm
innovativeness: the strategic leadership role of family
board members. International Entrepreneurship and
Management Journal, 17, 261–287.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11365-020-00657-y

Bozhinovska & Eftimov
Campopiano, G., Calabrò, A., & Basco, R. (2020). The
“Most Wanted”: the role of family strategic resources
and family involvement in CEO succession intention.
Family Business Review, 33(3), 1-26.
https://doi.org/10.1177/0894486520927289
Carmo, C.; Alves, S. & Quaresma, B. (2022). Women on
boards in Portuguese listed companies: does gender
diversity influence financial performance?
Sustainability, 14(10), 6186.
https://doi.org/10.3390/su14106186
Castellanos, J. D. & George, B. (2020), Boardroom
leadership: the board of directors as a source of
strategic leadership. Economic and Business Review,
6(20-1),103-119.
https://sciendo.com/article/10.18559/ebr.2020.1.5
Chams, N. & García-Blandón, J. (2019). Sustainable or not
sustainable? The role of the board of directors. Journal
of Cleaner Production, 26, 1067-1081.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.04.118
Cheffins, B. R. (2015). Corporate governance since the
managerial capitalism era. Business History Review,
89(4), 717-744.
https://doi.org/10.1017/S0007680515000690
Child, J. (1972). Organizational structure, environment and
performance: the role of strategic choice. Sociology,
6(1), 1-22.
https://doi.org/10.1177/003803857200600101
Child, J.(1997). Strategic choice in the analysis of action,
structure, organizations and environment: retrospect
and prospect. Organization Studies, 18(1), 43-76.
https://doi.org/10.1177/017084069701800104
Claessens, S., & Yurtoglu, B. (2012). Corporate
Governance and Development — An Update.
Washington: International Finance Corporation.
Davis, J. H., Schoorman, F.D. & Donaldson, L. (1997),
Toward a stewardship theory of management, Academy
of Management Review, 22(1), 20–47.
https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.1997.9707180258
Eisenhardt, K. M. (1989). Agency theory: an assessment
and review. The Academy of Management
Review,14(1), 57-74.
https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.1989.4279003
Fama, E. F. & Jensen, M. C. (1983), Separation of
ownership and control. Journal of Law and Economics,
26(2), 301–325.
Fernandez, W. D. & Sundaramurthy, C. (2020). Boards’
relevant experience and international strategy: a recipe
for success or a case of too many cooks?. Global
Strategy Journal, 10(4), 726-749.
https://doi.org/10.1002/gsj.1392
Forbes, D. P., & Milliken, F. J. (1999). Cognition and
corporate governance: understanding boards of
directors as strategic decision-making groups. The
Academy of Management Review, 24(3), 489-505.
https://doi.org/10.2307/259138
Freeman, E. J. (1984). Strategic Management: A
Stakeholder Approach. London, UK: Pitman Publishing
Inc.
Gaio, C. & Gonçalves, T. C. (2022). Gender diversity on the
board and firms corporate social responsibility.
International Journal of Financial Studies 10(15), 1-16.
https://doi.org/10.3390/ijfs10010015

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

Ghaya, H. (2011). Board of directors’ involvement in
strategic decision making process: definition and
literature review. Working Papers of BETA 2011-22,
Bureau d'Economie Théorique et Appliquée, UDS,
Strasbourg. Retrieved May 9, 2021 from:
https://ideas.repec.org/p/ulp/sbbeta/2011-22.html
Ginsberg, A. (1994). Minding the Competition: From
Mapping to Mastery. Strategic Mangement Journal, 15,
153-174.
https://doi.org/10.1002/smj.4250150911
Goldstein, J. C. (2022). Strategy maps: the middle
management perspective. Journal of Business
Strategy, 43(1), 3-9.
https://doi.org/10.1108/JBS-09-2020-0191
Guerra, S. (2022). The black box of corporate governance.
New York: Routledge.
Hamidi, D. Y. & Machold, S. (2020). Governance, boards
and value co-creation – changing perspectives towards
a service dominant logic. European Management
Journal, 38(6), 956-966.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.emj.2020.06.001
Hermanson, D. R., Tompkins, J. G., Veliyath, R. & Ye, Z. S.
(2020). Strategic planning committees on U.S. public
company boards: axiomatic or paradoxical?. Long
Range Planning, 53(5), 101967.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2020.101967
Issa, A. & Bensalem, N. (2022). Are gender-diverse boards
eco-innovative? The mediating role of corporate social
responsibility strategy. Corporate Social Responsibility
and Environmental Management, 30(2), 742-754.
https://doi.org/10.1002/csr.2385
Jensen, M. C. & Meckling, W.H. (1976). Theory of the firm:
managerial behavour, agency cost and ownership
structure. Journal of Financial Economics, 3(4), 305360.
Judge, W. Q., & Zeithaml, C. P. (1992). Institutional and
strategic choice perspectives on board involvement in
strategic decision process. The Academy of
Management Journal, 35(4), 766-794.
https://doi.org/10.2307/256315
Jung, H., Lee, Y. G. & Park, S. H. (2023). Just diverse
among themselves: how does negative performance
feedback affect boards’ expertise vs. ascriptive
diversity?. Organization Science 34(2), 657-679.
https://doi.org/10.1287/orsc.2022.1595
Khan, W. A. (1990). Psychological conditions of personal
engagement and disengagement at work. Academy of
Management Journal, 33(4), 692-724.
https://doi.org/10.5465/256287
Kanadli, S. B., Alawadi, A., Kakabadse, N. & Zhang, P.
(2022). Do independent boards pay attention to
corporate sustainability? Gender diversity can make a
difference. Corporate Governance, 22(7), 1390-1404.
https://doi.org/10.1108/CG-09-2021-0352
Kanadlı, S. B., Zhang, P. & Kakabadse, N. K. (2020). How
job-related diversity affects boards’ strategic tasks
performance: the role of chairperson. Corporate
Governance, 20(4), 583-599.
https://doi.org/10.1108/CG-08-2019-0267
Klarner, P., Probst, G. & Useem, M. (2020). Opening the
black box: Unpacking board involvement in innovation.
Strategic Organization, 18(4), 487-519.
https://doi.org/10.1177/1476127019839321

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

25

26

Bozhinovska & Eftimov

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

Klarner, P., Yoshikawa, T. & Hiit, M. (2021). A capability
based view of boards: a new conceptual framework for
board governance. Academy of Management
Perspectives, 35,(1), 123-141.
https://doi.org/10.5465/amp.2017.0030

Morais, F., Kakabadse, A. & Kakabadse, N. (2020). Leading
through discontinuous change: a typology of problems
and leadership approaches in UK boards. Long Range
Planning, 53(2). 101870.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2019.02.003

Leblach, R. & Schwarts, M. S. (20070. The black box of
board process: gaining access to a difficult subject.
Corporate Governance, 15(5), 843-851.
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-8683.2007.00617.x

Morgan, D. L., LePeau, L. A. & Commodore, F. (2022).
Observable evidence and partnership possibilities for
governing board involvement in diversity, equity, and
inclusion: a content analysis. Research in Higher
Education, 63, 189–221.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11162-021-09651-x

Levinthal, D. A. & March, G. A. (1993). The myopia of
learning. Strategic Management Journal, Special Issue:
Organization, Decision-making and Strategy, 14, 95112.
https://doi.org/10.1002/smj.4250141009
Levrau, A., & Van den Berghe, L. (2007). Corporate
governance and board effectiveness : beyond
formalism. Vlerick Leuven Gent Working Paper Series
2007/03. Retrieved December 15, 2022 from:
https://repository.vlerick.com/bitstream/handle/20.500.1
2127/2267/Levrau_A_WP_CorporateGovernanceandBo
ardEffectiveness.pdf?sequence=1&isAllowed=y
Lornudd, C., Frykman, M., Stenfors, T., Ebbevi, D., Hasson,
H., Sundberg, C. J. & Von Thiele Schwarz, U. (2021).
A champagne tower of influence: an interview study of
how corporate boards enact occupational health and
safety. Safty science, 143, 1-33.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ssci.2021.105416

Moussa, T., Allam, A., Elbanna, S. & Bani-Mustafa, A.
(2019). Can board environmental orientation improve
US firms’ carbon performance? The mediating role of
carbon strategy. Business Strategy and the
Environment, 29(1), 72-80.
https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.2351
Naciti, V. (2019). Corporate governance and board of
directors: The effect of a board composition on firm
sustainability performance. Journal of Cleaner
Production, 237, 117727.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.117727
Nahum, N., & Carmeli, C. (2019). Leadership style in a
board of directors: implications of involvement in the
strategic decision‑making process, Journal of
Management and Governance, 24, 199-227.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10997-019-09455-3

Luciano, M. M., Nahrgang, J. D. & Shropshire, C. (2020)
Strategic leadership systems: viewing top management
teams and boards of directors from a multiteam
systems perspective. Academy of Management
Review, 45(3), 1-62.
https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.2017.0485

Orazalin, N. (2019). Do board sustainability committees
contribute to corporate environmental and social
performance? The mediating role of corporate social
responsibility strategy. Business Strategy and the
environment, 29(1), 140-153.
https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.2354

Maassen, G. F., (2002), An International Comparison of
Corporate Governance Models, 3ed. Amsterdam:
Spencer Stuart.

Orazalin, N. & Baydauletov, M. (2020). Corporate social
responsibility strategy and corporate environmental and
social performance: the moderating role of board
gender diversity. Corporate Social Responsibility and
Environmental Management, 27(4), 1664-1676.
https://doi.org/10.1002/csr.1915

Martinez-Jimenez, R., Hernández-Ortiz, M.J. & Cabrera
Fernández, A. I.. (2019). Gender diversity influence on
board effectiveness and business performance.
Corporate Governance, 20(2), 307-323.
https://doi.org/10.1108/CG-07-2019-0206
Maslach, C., & Later, M. P. (1997). The truth about burnout:
how organizations cause personal stress and what to
do about it. San Francisco, USA: John Willey & Sons.

Peng, X., Yang, Z., Shao, J. & Li, X. (2021). Board diversity
and corporate social responsibility disclosure of
multinational corporations. Applied Economics, 53(42),
4884-4898.
https://doi.org/10.1080/00036846.2021.1910620

McNulty, T., & Pettigrew, A. (1999). Strategist on the board.
Organization Studies, 20(1), 47-74.
https://doi.org/10.1177/0170840699201003

Pfeffer, J. & Salancik, G. R. (2003). The External Control of
Organizations. Stanford, California: Stanford University
Press.

Mensi-Klarbach, H., & Seierstad, C. (2020). Gender Quotas
on Corporate Boards: Similarities and Differences in
Quota Scenarios. European Management Review,
17(3), 615-631.
https://doi.org/10.1111/emre.12374

Pugliese, A., Bezemer, P. J., Zattoni, A., Huse, M., Van den
Bosch, F. A. J., & Volberda, H. W. (2009). Boards of
directors’ contribution to strategy: a literature review
and research agenda. Corporate Governance: An
International Review, 17(3), 292–306.
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-8683.2009.00740.x

Mikkonen, M. , Stenvall, J. & Lehtonen, K. (2021). The
paradox of gender diversity, organizational outcomes,
and recruitment in the boards of national governing
bodies of sport. Administrative Sciences 11(4), 141157.
https://doi.org/10.3390/admsci11040141
Minciullo, M. & Pedrini, M. (2019). Antecedents of board
involvement and its consequences on organisational
effectiveness in non‑profit organisations:a study on
European corporate foundations. Journal of
Managemnt and Governance, 24,531-555.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10997-019-09480-2

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

Pye, A., & Camm, G. (2003). Non-executive directors:
moving beyond the ‘one-size-fit-all’ view. Journal of
General Management, 28(3), 52-70.
https://doi.org/10.1177/030630700302800304
Rindova, V. P. (1999). What corporate boards have to do
with strategy: a cognitive perspective. Journal of
Management Studies, 36(7), 953-975.
https://doi.org/10.1111/1467-6486.00165
Rosenstein, J. (1987). Why don’t boards get more involved
in strategy?. Long Range planning, 20(3), 30-34.
https://doi.org/10.1016/0024-6301(87)90069-0

Bozhinovska & Eftimov
Saks, A. M., & Gruman, J. A (2014). What do we really
know about employee engagement?. Human Resource
Development Quarterly, 25(2), 155-180.
https://doi.org/10.1002/hrdq.21187
Sidhu, J. S., Feng, Y., Volberda, H. W. & Van Den Bosch,
F. A. J. (2021). In the shadow of social stereotypes:
gender diversity on corporate boards, board chair’s
gender and strategic change. Organization Studies,
42(11), 1677-1698.
https://doi.org/10.1177/01708406209445
Slomka-Golebiowska, A., De Masi, S. & Paci, A. (2023).
Board dynamics and board tasks empowered by
women on boards: evidence from Italy. Management
Research Review, 46(3), 390-412.
https://www.emerald.com/insight/content/doi/10.1108/M
RR-09-2021-0678/full/html
Snyder, H. (2019). Literature review as a research
methodology: an overview and guidelines. Journal of
Business Reserach, 104, 333-339.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2019.07.039
Stubbart, C. I. (1989). Managerial cognition: a missing link
in strategic management research. Journal of
Management Studies, 26(4), 325-347.
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-6486.1989.tb00732.x
Squires, B. & Elnahla, N. (2020). The roles played by
boards of directors: an integration of the agency and
stakeholder theories. Transnational Corporations
Review, 12(2), 126-139.
https://doi.org/10.1080/19186444.2020.1757340
Torraco, R. J. (2006). Writing integrative literature reviews:
guidelines and examples. Human Resource
Development Review, 4(3), 356-367.
https://doi.org/10.1177/1534484305278283
Vehka, M. & Vesa, H. (2023). Internal governance of
interest organizations: the role of boards of directors in
advocacy performance. Non-profit and Voluntary Sector
Quartely, 52(2), 474-492.
https://doi.org/10.1177/08997640221091529

Boards’ strategic involvement models: past, present, and future

Watson, C. & Ireland, A. (2021). Boards in action:
processes and practices of ‘strategizing’ in the
boardroom. Journal of Management and Governance
25, 933–966.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10997-020-09545-7
Wommack, W. W. (1979). The board’s most important
function. Harvard Business Review, 57(5).
https://hbr.org/1979/09/the-boards-most-importantfunction
Yarram, S. R. & Adapa, S. (2021). Board gender diversity
and corporate social responsibility: Is there a case for
critical mass?. Journal of Cleaner Production, 278,
123319.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.123319
Zahra, S. A. & Pearce II, J. A. (1989). Boards of directors
and corporate financial performance: a review and
integrative model. Journal of Management, 15(2), 291334.
https://doi.org/10.1177/014920638901500208
Zahra, S. A., & Pearce II, J. A. (1990). Determinants of
boards directors’ strategic involvement. European
Management Journal, 8(2), 164-173.
https://doi.org/10.1016/0263-2373(90)90082-H
Zenou, E., Allemand, I., Brullebaut, B., & Galia, F. (2020).
Board recruitment as a strategic answer: Do
companies' strategies for innovation influence the
selection of new board members?. Strategic Change,
Special Issue: Organizational Design Products, 29(1),
127-139.
https://doi.org/10.1002/jsc.2316
Zhu, Q, Hu, S. & Shen, W. (2020). Why do some insider
CEOs make more strategic changes than others? The
impact of prior board experience on new CEO
insiderness. Strategic Management Journal, 41(10), 1–
19.
https://doi.org/10.1002/smj.3183

 Correspondence

Tihona Bozhinovska
“Ss. Cyril and Methodius” University in Skopje,
Faculty of Economics – Skopje, Skopje
Bul. Goce Delchev, 9V, 1000 Skopje,
Republic of North Macedonia
E-mail: tihona@eccf.ukim.edu.mk

STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT, Vol. 29 (2024), No. 4, pp. 005-027

27

