RESEARCH REPORT

Moving Up the Digital
Experience Maturity Curve

Sponsored by

SPONSOR PERSPECTIVE

Jenna Elliot
Vice President, Global Customer Success
Amplitude

Nearly every company today is in the digital experience
business. Whether you’re selling software, savings
accounts, or media content, your customers expect (or
rather, demand) effortless, personalized interactions
with your brand. Crafting unforgettable digital
experiences is no longer a nice to have. Though
businesses could get away with delivering disjointed
experiences in decades past, most can’t afford to do so
today—because customers will walk away.
Organizations are eager for a clear path forward,
especially when grappling with massive data volumes,
fragmented data sources, fluctuating consumer
demands, inconsistent metrics, and poor crossfunctional alignment. The problem is that delivering
the right experience to the right person on the right
channel at the right time at scale isn’t easy—and it takes
more than good technology to design seamless and
memorable experiences.
If it were as easy as flipping the switch on a new shiny
tool, more companies would be crushing the digital
experience game. But the reality is that while some
companies do digital experiences well, others struggle
to keep pace.
We believe the true path to building memorable digital
experiences involves a proactive combination of:
1) Strategy
2) Organizational culture
3) Operational processes
4) Technology
Together, these components create the foundation for
digital experience maturity.

This report uses survey data and interviews with
subject-matter experts to explore businesses’
opportunities to increase their maturity across these
four key areas and create better, loyalty-building
experiences. Through this report, you’ll discover:
• What major companies are doing differently regarding
strategy, culture, operations, and technology that sets
them apart from the crowd
• What’s holding organizations back
• How these findings can help more companies mature
their digital experiences
Getting answers to these questions is more pressing
than ever. Digitally mature companies consistently
grow revenue more quickly than their less advanced
counterparts. They create value for their customers by
building first-class experiences across channels, and
they empower their employees to analyze, experiment,
and act on insights. These organizations prove that
creating a self-serve, data-driven culture is not a pipe
dream but a practical reality within your grasp.
We hope this report’s insights set you on a journey of
introspection, inspiration, and, most importantly, action.
It’s time to stop guessing and start building digital
experiences that matter.

Moving Up the Digital Experience
Maturity Curve

In today’s fiercely competitive, digital-first world,
delivering highly engaging and personalized digital
experiences is more than strategy; it’s core to a
company’s survival. By personalizing interactions
and predicting customer needs, organizations
can attract new prospects and retain high-value
customer relationships.
Just ask Nikhil Agrawal, an engineering manager at Quillbot, a provider of
artificial intelligence (AI)-powered writing software in Chicago. A relatively
new player in today’s $1.81 trillion global AI market, Quillbot has had success
in building engaging digital experiences that keep customer needs in mind,
and that has been “a competitive advantage” in a crowded landscape, he says.
The pressure to attract and retain customers shows no signs of waning as
technological advances heighten customer demands and global competition
intensifies. In July 2024, Harvard Business Review Analytic Services surveyed
503 members of the Harvard Business Review audience who are involved in
decision making about digital experiences at their organization. Seventyeight percent of these respondents say evolving consumer expectations are
driving their organization to create more engaging digital experiences, and 61%
cite increased competition as an impetus for action. For the purposes of this
survey, digital experiences are defined as the ways in which customers interact
electronically with products and services, driven by data and actionable
insights that help organizations improve engagement and satisfaction and
achieve their business goals.
But those interactions are hardly static. “A product feature that’s a surprise
or a delight today becomes normal and expected by consumers over time,”
says Dave Cherry, principal of Cherry Advisory LLC, a strategy consultancy in
New Albany, Ohio. “We have this consumer population whose expectations are
always increasing. What wowed them yesterday no longer wows them today.”
To thrive in this changing landscape, organizations must achieve digital
experience maturity, which involves four key areas: technological, operational,

HIGHLIGHTS

83% of respondents cite
building engaging digital
experiences as “very
important.”

78% of respondents
say evolving consumer
expectations are driving their
organization to create more
engaging digital experiences.

32% of respondents say
their organization is “very
effective” at creating
engaging digital experiences.

Due to rounding, some figures in this report may not
add up to 100%.

Research Report | Moving Up the Digital Experience Maturity Curve
1

Harvard Business Review Analytic Services

gaining a clear picture of customer needs, organizations can
better understand what draws customers and what makes
them stick around. Fueled by these insights, they can make
confident product decisions that sustain growth and drive
profitability.
Although 83% of respondents cite building engaging digital
experiences as “very important,” many struggle to achieve this
goal. In fact, only 32% of respondents say their organization is
“very effective” at creating engaging digital experiences. For
the purposes of this paper, these organizations are defined
as leaders. Comparatively, 42% of respondents say their
organization is “somewhat effective,” defined here as followers,
and 26% say their organization is “not very effective,” defined
here as laggards. FIGURE 1
Failure to effectively create impactful digital experiences
is a missed opportunity to gain a competitive edge. Case in
point: 75% of leaders and 71% of followers cite enhanced
customer engagement as a benefit they’ve realized to date
from delivering engaging digital experiences, compared to 55%
of laggards. Similarly, 70% of leaders cite improved customer
satisfaction as a positive byproduct of delivering excellent
digital experiences, whereas only 60% of followers and 61%
of laggards report achieving the same result. Another benefit
gained by leaders is sustainable business growth, cited by 54%
of leaders, 37% of followers, and 24% of laggards.
However, achieving these benefits requires insight into how
to create compelling digital experiences that drive efficiency
and sales. Fortunately, 71% of leaders have a clear vision of
what is needed to create powerful digital experiences. Yet

“A product feature that’s a surprise
or a delight today becomes normal
and expected by consumers over
time. What wowed them yesterday
no longer wows them today,” says
Dave Cherry, principal of Cherry
Advisory LLC.

and organizational readiness, plus strategic alignment.
Evolving in these areas is necessary for organizations to
intimately know their customers—who they are, what features
and services they like, where they encounter obstacles along
their journey, and why they come back. Digital analytics can
help organizations achieve digital experience maturity by
delivering instantaneous customer insights that empower
organizations to meet customers in the moment with the
right experiences every single time, fostering greater loyalty
and wallet share.
But acquiring the maturity to deliver exceptional
digital experiences requires overcoming technological,
organizational, and operational obstacles. For starters,
businesses today are drowning in disconnected data.
Customer data often sits across multiple repositories, making
it difficult to verify, access, or trust.
Complicating matters, many teams are constrained by
internal roadblocks as they look to leverage customer insights.
Customer-related KPIs don’t always align across teams, and
information and insight sharing can be extremely limited
because of siloed data. Additionally, processes that support a
customer-first approach are typically nascent or nonexistent,
making it difficult to plan for and measure success.
This report examines organizations’ readiness to create
engaging digital experiences; uncovers the technological,
organizational, and operational factors preventing
organizations from achieving this goal; and highlights the
best practices that can further organizations on their journey
to greater digital experience maturity.

FIGURE 1

Is Your Organization a Digital Experience Leader,
Follower, or Laggard?
How effective is your organization at creating engaging digital experiences?
On a scale of 0–10, where 0=not at all effective and 10=extremely effective.

32%

Leaders: “Very effective” (8–10)

42%

Followers: “Somewhat effective” (5–7)

26%

Laggards: “Not very effective” (0–4)

Creating Digital Engagement
The race is on to create impactful digital experiences that
can convert audiences into lifetime customers. By analyzing
behavioral data, identifying opportunities for conversion, and

Base: 503 respondents
Source: Harvard Business Review Analytic Services survey, July 2024

Research Report | Moving Up the Digital Experience Maturity Curve
2

Harvard Business Review Analytic Services

More than half of respondents (55%) cite
not using artificial intelligence and machine
learning to understand or predict customer
behavior as a barrier to achieving technology
maturity for creating digital experiences.

Driving Technological Readiness

only 54% of followers and 21% of laggards make the same
claim. More than half—51%—of overall respondents know
what’s required to create impactful digital experiences. But
it’s unlikely they all have a solid plan of execution.
Four key pillars stand out for businesses as they build
and sustain impactful digital experiences and accelerate
growth. The first is technological readiness, defined by a solid
data foundation and principles that drive data integration,
accessibility, governance, trustworthiness, and security
while leveraging tools that illuminate customer behavior
and preferences and enable experimentation, personalization,
and customer activation.
The second pillar is organizational readiness, in which
cross-functional teams are organized for success and
seamlessly work together, sharing their learnings and insights
across the entire customer life cycle to achieve continuous
improvement, all while under the guidance of strong and
dedicated leadership.
The third pillar is operational readiness, where employees
embrace fully integrated systems, automated workflows,
processes, and tools to democratize insights, accelerate
learning, and improve decision making.
The fourth pillar is strategic alignment, in which a shared
vision of success, cross-functional key performance indicators,
and performance tracking strategies help deliver better digital
experiences.
Together, these pillars are powerful markers of an
organization’s digital experience maturity and can help
identify strengths and opportunities for improvement.

There is no shortage of digital analytics tools promising to
provide organizations with a complete understanding of a
customer’s journey from brand discovery to repeat purchases.
Although all insights gleaned from these tools have the
potential to improve digital experiences, respondents say
their organization is most interested in insights from digital
analytics tools that relate to customer satisfaction (56%),
customer journey (53%), and user behavior (48%).
But tracking how customers navigate products and websites,
and discovering the features they engage with most, requires
the use of emerging technologies. For instance, more than half
of respondents (55%) cite not using artificial intelligence and
machine learning to understand or predict customer behavior
as a barrier to achieving technology maturity for creating
digital experiences. That’s a big missed opportunity when
AI-powered tools can personalize product experiences in real
time to drive customer retention and loyalty. For example, AI
can determine the most likely content, features, and messages
to increase the likelihood of customer conversion.
Data challenges, including siloed, unavailable, and
inaccessible data, are also preventing organizations from
creating engaging digital experiences. Sixty-nine percent
of laggards and followers say fragmented data that is siloed
across multiple systems is preventing their organization
from creating engaging digital experiences, compared to
48% of leaders.
According to John Lovett, vice president of analytics for
Seer Interactive LLC, a certified B Corp digital consultancy in

Research Report | Moving Up the Digital Experience Maturity Curve
3

Harvard Business Review Analytic Services

Philadelphia, part of the problem is that data silos typically
provide only a partial view of customer interactions, which
can lead to “digital experiences that put off consumers. If
you only know me through your web analytics data silo, you
may not know that I spoke to a call center agent and resolved
my problem or accomplished my task. Similarly, if you don’t
connect your sales data to advertising, you have the potential
to bombard me with ads for a product that I’ve already
purchased. These are surefire ways to alienate customers.”
Fortunately, closely examining leaders’ actions reveals a
set of technological best practices that followers and laggards
would be wise to adopt. Chief among these practices is leaders’
reliance on high-quality, usable, and governed data to make

smart decisions. For example, 54% of leaders agree that their
entire organization has access to high-quality customer data,
compared to only 34% of followers and a mere 20% of laggards.
FIGURE 2 Enterprise-wide accessibility to meaningful data is
also critical for aligning product, marketing, and sales teams’
goals while enabling the sharing of customer-centric insights
across an enterprise.
Having a data governance strategy is also a defining
characteristic of leaders (cited by 63% of respondents)
when it comes to technological maturity for creating
engaging digital experiences. Comparatively, only 50% of
followers, and 40% of laggards, say it’s a component of their
technological maturity. Its absence is cause for concern, as

FIGURE 2

Signs of Technological Readiness
Leaders are more likely to have access to high-quality, trustworthy customer data and integrated systems than followers
and laggards
When it comes to creating engaging digital experiences, which of the following does your organization have in terms of technological maturity?
Select all that apply.

■ All respondents ■ Leaders ■ Followers ■ Laggards
62%
65%
62%
60%
A data security and privacy framework

37
54
34
20
High-quality data

52
63
50
40
A data governance strategy

34
49
32
20
The proper tools for analyzing customer behavior and preferences

50
63
49
37
Ability to track metrics related to product and marketing outputs
(e.g., new features, products/services, and campaigns)

34
48
30
23
Principles that drive data trustworthiness

44
57
45
25
Data that is integrated across various systems

30
49
27
12
Personalized digital experiences

42
49
41
36
Guidelines for data accessibility

3
0
2
9
None

Base: 503 respondents. Not shown: 0–1% other, 1–3% don’t know, varies by segment.
Source: Harvard Business Review Analytic Services survey, July 2024

Research Report | Moving Up the Digital Experience Maturity Curve
4

54%

of leaders agree that
their entire organization
has access to highquality customer data,
compared to only 34%
of followers and a mere
20% of laggards.

Harvard Business Review Analytic Services

“You have to make sure that you’re compliant
in how you’re tracking user behavior. There are
privacy implications, so you don’t want to track
when a user does not want to be tracked.”
Sriram Sirisinahal, senior director and head of
corporate data, Unity Software Inc.

proper data governance, data security, and privacy standards
are increasingly important to ensure customer insights are
accurate and carefully protected.
To safeguard its data, Unity Software Inc. has integrated
third-party compliance tools with its analytics solutions,
ensuring the San Francisco-based software development
company upholds key data privacy and security standards.
“You have to make sure that you’re compliant in how you’re
tracking user behavior,” says Sriram Sirisinahal, senior director
and head of corporate data at Unity. “There are privacy
implications, so you don’t want to track when a user does
not want to be tracked.”
Indeed, the right data governance strategies can make
data more accessible, accurate, and actionable across an
organization, but not if data exists in silos. “If you are an
entity that wants to collect data from lots of different sources,
then you have to carefully figure out how to munge them all
together,” says Jim Sterne, speaker, author, and president
of Target Marketing of Santa Barbara, an analytics and AI
consultancy based in Santa Barbara, Calif.
Simon Trudeau understands the importance of data
integration. Trudeau is head of analytics and optimization for
Wahi Realty Inc., a Toronto-based company whose digital real
estate platform enables users to buy and sell homes based on
market data for the latest property listings. Trudeau provides
an example of a customer whose online behavior indicates
interest in a townhouse but who has recently contacted

Wahi Realty over the phone to let them know that their
interest has shifted to detached homes. Without proper data
integration, he says, a brand would continue to create digital
experiences based on outdated customer preferences. For this
reason, Wahi ensures systems such as customer relationship
management and product analytics are fully integrated across
the organization. As a result, Trudeau says, “Even if the user
didn’t change his behavior or data on the website, we know
that his preferences have changed. My responsibility is to
make sure that we leverage all the data points that we have
across the company as much as possible.”
Leaders are more likely to have integrated data across
various systems than are laggards (57% vs. 25%). Only 45%
of followers claim to possess integrated data. Whether
fragmented by a series of mergers and acquisitions or poor
data management practices, data silos are the enemy of a
holistic and accurate view of the customer journey.

Achieving Organizational Readiness
It takes more than technology to capture a clear picture
of customers. Collaborative, cross-functional teams and
strong leadership are also critical to continuously creating
meaningful customer interactions. Yet initiatives to build
engaging digital experiences can become fragmented over
time. Sixty-six percent of laggards report a lack of collective
ownership as an organizational barrier that prevents their

Research Report | Moving Up the Digital Experience Maturity Curve
6

Harvard Business Review Analytic Services

organization from creating engaging digital experiences.
Followers and leaders also struggle in this capacity, as noted
by 58% and 44% of respondents, respectively.
However, reluctance to work collaboratively may stem
from gaps in understanding rather than intentional
shirking of responsibility, says Morgan Templar, founder
and chief executive officer of First CDO Partners, a data
management consultancy in Pittsburgh. “Business teams
own an organization’s outcomes, its growth strategy, and a
company’s strategic direction,” she says. “Yet most business
leaders don’t really understand data or how it impacts an
organization.” To bridge this divide, she recommends that
organizations develop a common language that empowers
business and technology teams alike to better understand
how data can be leveraged to create digital experiences and
how these initiatives align with a company’s business goals.
Another barrier preventing organizations from creating
engaging digital experiences is inadequate training of
employees on customer-centric technologies, cited by
52% of laggards and somewhat fewer followers (48%) and
leaders (33%).
Leaders prioritize working collaboratively to get the insights
they need to enhance customer acquisition and retention. For
instance, Trudeau says Wahi tends to release new product
features at a rapid clip. “One of the key organizational
challenges we face is synchronizing product delivery with
the adoption of new features by sales and operations teams,”
he says. “Ensuring these teams are properly trained on the
latest features is critical, but it requires a coordinated effort.”
In response, Wahi not only trains employees on new product
features but records these sessions and shares them across
the organization.
Communication is also key to achieving organizational
maturity, especially when a workforce spans geographic
boundaries. For example, Quillbot relies on a wide array of
communication, project management, task management,
and document management tools to disseminate information
about recent changes in product design among its employees,
many of whom are located in separate time zones across the
United States, Europe, and India.
“At an organizational level, it’s necessary that all teams work
together toward a shared goal,” says Quillbot’s Agrawal. “The
product or experience we want to build will not be of high
quality if we don’t work in a collaborative way.”
Not surprisingly, 75% of leaders achieve organizational
maturity by supporting cross-functional collaboration
across teams and departments. A smaller proportion (49%)
of followers are doing the same. But only 39% of laggards have
cross-functional collaboration for the purpose of creating
engaging digital experiences. FIGURE 3
An organization’s evaluation of digital customer experiences
should not be static. Rather, because customer behavior exists

across many channels and platforms, organizations must grow
and innovate by testing new approaches to creating digital
experiences. In fact, 64% of leaders say they are focused on
achieving continuous improvement throughout the customer
life cycle. Fifty-four percent of followers and 30% of laggards
say the same.
Wahi, for example, continuously tests new ideas and product
features “to try to understand user behavior and see where
we can find opportunities for improvement,” says Trudeau.
In the case of Unity, tracking and experimenting with
new feature rollouts, and fine-tuning products based on

FIGURE 3

Steps to Organizational Maturity
Cross-functional collaboration and continuous
improvement can lead to greater organizational readiness
When it comes to creating engaging digital experiences, which of the
following does your organization have in terms of organizational maturity?
Select all that apply.

■ All respondents ■ Leaders ■ Followers ■ Laggards
55%
75%
49%
39%
Cross-functional collaboration is supported across teams and departments
51
64
54
30
A focus on achieving continuous improvement throughout the entire
customer life cycle
46
52
51
30
A culture that encourages employees to share insights across the organization
39
49
39
29
An executive sponsor dedicated to championing digital experiences
10
1
9
22
None
Base: 503 respondents. Not shown: 0–2% other, 1–2% don’t know,
varies by segment.
Source: Harvard Business Review Analytic Services survey, July 2024

Research Report | Moving Up the Digital Experience Maturity Curve
7

Harvard Business Review Analytic Services

real-time and connected data, are critical to making product
enhancements that convert visitors into repeat customers.
“We want to focus on the features that are most impactful
and provide the biggest value,” says Unity’s Sirisinahal.
Conversely, he adds, “There are certain products that we’ve
released or features that we decided are not as useful anymore
and we’ve had to turn them off and pivot.”
In addition to cross-functional collaboration and datadriven improvements, leadership is a key component of
organizational maturity. Thirty-four percent of respondents
say that a C-level IT executive or the equivalent is primarily
responsible for creating digital experiences at their
organization. However, many are achieving success by
distributing responsibility for building digital experiences
across the organization. At Quillbot, for instance, each
department, from engineering to marketing, has its own
vice president responsible for making decisions around
how to build the most impactful digital experiences—an
approach that Agrawal says imbues employees with “a sense
of ownership.”

FIGURE 4

Artificial Intelligence as a Technology of Choice
Leaders are leveraging AI for customer feedback analysis,
personalization, and product recommendations
In what ways, if any, is your organization currently using artificial intelligence
to improve digital experiences? Select all that apply.

■ All respondents ■ Leaders ■ Followers ■ Laggards
43%
25%
45%
64%
My organization is not currently using AI to improve digital experiences
27
41
24
16
Analyze customer feedback, reviews, and other data
26
39
24
13
Personalize feature and content recommendations

Designing for Operational Readiness
Today’s organizations are collecting richer, more meaningful
data than ever. But leveraging this data to accelerate
learning and improve decision making requires operational
preparedness. Forty-seven percent of respondents agree
that their organization has the proper tools required to
create engaging digital experiences. And 59% expect their
organization to increase its investment in these tools over
the next year—a sign that organizations are heading in the
right operational direction.
Top among the technologies most impacting organizations’
operational readiness is AI. Fifty-three percent of respondents
say their organization uses AI to improve digital experiences.
AI can improve experiences in various ways. First, it can
provide teams with recommendations on what actions to take
based on customer behavior patterns. One example would be
reducing the number of links on a website after finding that
customers are more likely to click through these links than
click a primary call-to-action button. Second, by processing
large amounts of data, AI can enable more effective targeting
and personalization of digital experiences.
“The ability to create content faster, to be able to understand
trends, and conduct analyses is becoming easier and faster
with artificial intelligence,” says Lovett of Seer Interactive.
In fact, 71% of leaders currently use AI to improve digital
experiences, compared to 52% of followers and 33% of laggards.
Some of the top ways leaders are leveraging AI are to analyze
customer feedback (41%), personalize feature and content
recommendations (39%), and provide recommendations on
product and service features (36%). FIGURE 4

22
36
20
8
Provide recommendations on product/service features
20
31
18
8
Suggest actions to enhance customer engagement
18
30
14
8
Predict customer engagement patterns
17
24
17
9
Enhance the analysis of A/B tests and other experiments
15
23
14
8
Detect anomalies in customer behavior data
Base: 503 respondents, excluding don’t know. Not shown: 0–5% other, varies
by segment.
Source: Harvard Business Review Analytic Services survey, July 2024

Research Report | Moving Up the Digital Experience Maturity Curve
8

71%

of leaders currently use
AI to improve digital
experiences, compared
to 52% of followers and
33% of laggards.

Harvard Business Review Analytic Services

One such AI-leveraging company is Wahi. In addition
to allowing website visitors and app users to conduct realtime conversations with real estate agents via chat, the
company leverages AI capabilities to analyze a wide range
of interactions with customers, gaining valuable insights and
enhancing service quality.
Despite the many advantages of tools such as AI, Unity’s
Sirisinahal says an overabundance of disparate solutions,
especially if poorly integrated, can hinder efforts to create
digital experiences. In the past, he says, “our tools had
different capabilities and there was no way to marry them
together or understand a full picture of a customer’s journey.
Sometimes there would be too much information that we had
to parse through, which took a lot of manpower and time.
It just wasn’t sustainable.” Today, Sirisinahal says, Unity
relies on a key product analytics tool—a decision that has
significantly improved the company’s ability to glean insights
from customer behavior data.
Determining how to effectively use technology to create
digital experiences can also advance organizations along the
operational maturity curve. For instance, Eric Siegel, CEO of
Gooder AI, a provider of machine learning software in San
Francisco, and author of The AI Playbook: Mastering the Rare
Art of Machine Learning Development, says, “It’s important
to look at technologies such as AI in a concrete and specific
way in terms of what are its actual capabilities and what is
its exact value proposition.”
But achieving operational maturity takes more than
thoughtful use of innovative technologies. People also play
a critical role in shaping digital experiences. For this reason,
Cherry Advisory's Cherry says, organizations must invest in
employees so that they have the skills necessary to derive
value from analytics tools.
“There is an obligation to support employees,” he says. “If
you’re an organization that’s not investing in employees, then
you’re not really building relationships with them.”
In fact, when it comes to creating engaging digital
experiences, 51% of leaders use tools that enable employees
to access and gather data-driven insights, compared to 42% of
followers and 29% of laggards. FIGURE 5 Similarly, 49% of leaders
provide ongoing training to develop employees’ knowledge
and skills regarding data. Only 32% of followers and 27% of
laggards have this same approach to operational maturity.

FIGURE 5

Operational Excellence
Accessibility tools and ongoing employee training mark the
operational efforts of leaders
When it comes to creating engaging digital experiences, which of the
following does your organization have in terms of operational maturity?
Select all that apply.

■ All respondents ■ Leaders ■ Followers ■ Laggards
41%
51%
42%
29%
Tools that enable employees to access and gather data-driven insights
41
50
39
33
An environment that encourages employees to improve decision making with data
39
51
41
23
An environment that encourages employees to take action on data-driven insights
36
49
32
27
Ongoing training to develop employees’ knowledge and skills regarding data
33
43
33
20
Automated workflows and processes for creating digital experiences
22
33
19
14
Widespread employee adoption of integrated systems
13
4
11
27
None

Ensuring Strategic Alignment

Base: 503 respondents. Not shown: 0–1% other, 2–5% don’t know, varies by
segment.

Implementing strategies for creating digital experiences
requires the buy-in of multiple stakeholders—a particularly
difficult feat for many organizations. “It can be a challenge
to maintain alignment across a fast-paced environment,
especially when it comes to releasing new features,” says
Trudeau. “We must consider the constantly evolving needs

Source: Harvard Business Review Analytic Services survey, July 2024

Research Report | Moving Up the Digital Experience Maturity Curve
10

Harvard Business Review Analytic Services

of our users while ensuring that employees remain informed
and in sync.”
Less than half (47%) of respondents agree that their
functional teams are strategically aligned on how to use
data-driven insights to build impactful digital experiences.
Leaders, nonetheless, are achieving greater strategic
alignment by deploying strategies for attributing business
success (56%), relying on cross-functional KPIs (55%), and
having a shared vision of success (54%). FIGURE 6
To drive collective efforts around creating digital
experiences, Trudeau says, Wahi holds monthly meetings to
“make sure that everyone is aligned on new learnings.” Cloudbased productivity tools also serve as a valuable platform
for employees to communicate and unify perspectives on
how best to understand and retain customers.
Building consensus around higher-value customer
experiences requires cross-functional KPIs and performancetracking strategies. At Quillbot, employees rely on objectives
and key results (OKRs), a goal-setting framework, which
ensures all goals are not just visionary but also accompanied
by a clear plan of execution. Each department, from product
design to engineering, has its own set of OKRs, and projects
are mapped to meet these metrics. However, if a department
discovers that it’s dependent on another department to
accomplish a particular objective, Agrawal says, the two
parties must work together to understand the dependencies
between them and recalibrate accordingly.
“Departments must create their own OKRs toward the
goal and achieve alignment on their feasibility,” he says.
In the case of Wahi, Trudeau explains that “a companywide scorecard associated with teams ensures that they
are aligned with our overarching strategic visions and
KPIs.” Although metrics tend to vary, Trudeau says one
of the company’s most critical KPIs is customer retention.
Recently, the company discovered that when a customer
reviews six listings within seven days of becoming a new user,
“retention goes through the roof.” In response to this datadriven discovery, Wahi has established KPIs around tasks
that will ultimately drive visitors to engage in this behavior.
But how customers interact with a website is always
changing. The behaviors that result in high conversion
rates one month may change drastically the next. As a result,
Trudeau says, Wahi “holds quarterly strategic planning
sessions to review progress, adjust strategies as needed, and
ensure ongoing alignment across the organization.”
When it comes to metrics for measuring how effectively
initiatives improve digital experiences, 64% of leaders cite
customer service satisfaction, followed by financial metrics
(54%), customer engagement metrics (53%), and number
of active users on a monthly, weekly, or daily basis (51%).
Despite these valuable measurements, less than half (47%)
of respondents say that their organization relies on a defined

FIGURE 6

Achieving Alignment
Cross-functional KPIs and a shared vision of success are
among the markers of strategic alignment
When it comes to creating engaging digital experiences, which of the
following does your organization have in terms of strategic alignment?
Select all that apply.

■ All respondents ■ Leaders ■ Followers ■ Laggards
47%
55%
45%
38%
Cross-functional key performance indicators (KPIs)
43
54
46
23
A shared vision of success
40
50
39
29
Performance tracking strategies
40
56
42
18
A strategy for attributing business success (i.e., increased revenue, profitability)
to digital experience initiatives
14
4
10
31
None
Base: 503 respondents. Not shown: 0–1% other, 2–5% don’t know, varies by
segment.
Source: Harvard Business Review Analytic Services survey, July 2024

Research Report | Moving Up the Digital Experience Maturity Curve
11

Harvard Business Review Analytic Services

“Being customer-first is our number one priority. It’s about knowing
who our customers are, what they do, what they’re looking for, what
makes their life easy, and how we can be valuable in that sense. We’re
doing an excellent job, but there’s always room for improvement,”
says Unity’s Sirisinahal.

set of metrics to evaluate digital experience initiatives,
which may suggest a lack of consensus around how best to
understand efforts around delivering better products and
experiences.

alignment. Mature organizations exhibit an ability to easily
glean critical insights from clean and accurate data, a
commitment to cross-functional collaboration, a focus on
fully integrated systems, and a shared vision of success.
For those further behind on the maturity curve, these best
practices serve as valuable lessons. But they also underscore
the need for continuous exploration of what it takes to
attract and retain customers as well as boost revenue. Data
sources change, customer expectations evolve, and corporate
goals shift. In response, organizations must continuously
reexamine and reevaluate their efforts to improve the
connection between digital experiences and customer loyalty.
“Being customer-first is our number one priority,” says
Sirisinahal. “It’s about knowing who our customers are,
what they do, what they’re looking for, what makes their life
easy, and how we can be valuable in that sense. We’re doing
an excellent job, but there’s always room for improvement.”

Maturity in Motion
Organizations can’t afford to deliver generic experiences
that fall short of meeting customers’ rising expectations.
Conveying the right message on the right platform at the
right time requires a deep understanding of what drives
customers to engage with a product or website—and the
digital experiences that will ultimately convert them into
loyal customers.
Delivering engaging digital experiences, however,
takes a certain level of maturity in terms of technological,
organizational, and operational readiness, as well as strategic

Research Report | Moving Up the Digital Experience Maturity Curve
12

M E T H O D O LO GY A N D PA R T I C I PA N T P R O F I L E

Harvard Business Review Analytic Services surveyed 503 members of the Harvard Business Review
audience via an online survey fielded in July 2024. Respondents qualified to complete the survey if they
were involved in decision making about digital experiences at their organization.

Size of Organization

Seniority

Industry Sectors

Job Functions

Regions

39%

29%

16%

13%

39%

10,000 or more
employees

28%

1,000–9,999
employees

32%

100–999
employees

Executive
management/
board members

37%

Senior
management

20%

Middle
management

15%

Other grades

Figures may not add up to 100% due to rounding.

Technology

11%

Financial services

9%

Education

9%

Health care
All other sectors
less than 9% each

Operations/
product
management

11%
IT

10%

General
management
All other functions
less than 9% each

North America

22%

Europe

23%

Asia Pacific

11%

Middle East/Africa

5%

Latin America

ABOUT US

Harvard Business Review Analytic Services is an independent commercial research
unit within Harvard Business Review Group, conducting research and comparative
analysis on important management challenges and emerging business opportunities.
Seeking to provide business intelligence and peer-group insight, each report is
published based on the findings of original quantitative and/or qualitative research
and analysis. Quantitative surveys are conducted with the HBR Advisory Council,
HBR’s global research panel, and qualitative research is conducted with senior
business executives and subject-matter experts from within and beyond the Harvard
Business Review author community. Email us at hbranalyticservices@hbr.org.

hbr.org/hbr-analytic-services

Copyright © 2024 Harvard Business School Publishing.

MCCRE57051124

