RESEARCH REPORT

The New HR Imperative:
HR Executives as Strategists
and Visionaries

Sponsored by

SPONSOR PERSPECTIVE

My mission as Indeed’s chief people and sustainability officer is to make
sure our employees feel challenged, inspired, included, and empowered
to make progress toward our goals of helping all people get jobs equitably.
Of course, as any senior HR leader knows, leading a workforce of any
size today comes with inherent challenges. Employees rightfully expect
more from their leaders and HR must balance the competing demands
of managing critical “run the business” work alongside employee
development, transformational projects, and keeping pace with emerging
technologies.
This change and the increased demands from both the boardroom and
the employees highlight the need for HR leaders at every level to evolve
beyond traditional roles into strategic, operational partners.
This 2024 Harvard Business Review Analytic Services survey underscores
this imperative, revealing that 82% of executives say it’s very important
for HR leadership to influence an organization’s strategy and vision.
Still, only 33% say their HR leadership is effective in this regard. This
gap presents a tremendous opportunity for HR leaders to elevate their
influence and impact.
The insights presented in this report underscore a critical reality: When
we as HR professionals excel in fostering employee engagement, our
organizations gain a significant competitive advantage.
Creating engaged employees can’t happen overnight. It’s a continuous
journey that demands thoughtful planning, creativity, and commitment.
By setting clear metrics and practices, we can measure and improve our
engagement strategies, turning them into real business results. Achieving
this goal requires a culture of recognition, opportunities for growth, higher
prioritization of employee well-being, and transparent communication.
HR departments must move towards more transformative initiatives
that foster an ethical, inclusive, and innovative organizational culture.
Investing in continuous employee development and creating systems to
motivate and engage talent are key. We are excited about the potential for
leveraging artificial intelligence (AI) to streamline processes and enhance
decision making. By embracing responsible AI, HR can free up time for
strategic thinking, relationship building, and problem-solving, further
solidifying their role as strategic partners.
HR executives are at a pivotal point where their strategic input is valuable
and essential for overall business success. By expanding their roles and
focusing on fostering an ethical, inclusive, and innovative organizational
culture, HR can drive significant positive change, ensuring that employees
not only are prepared for the future but are active shapers of it. This report
guides HR leaders to harness their potential and lead with strategic vision
and purpose. By doing so, we will drive business success and build a more
inclusive and resilient future for all.

LaFawn Davis
Chief People and
Sustainability Officer
Indeed

The New HR Imperative:
HR Executives as Strategists
and Visionaries

Business strategies are becoming increasingly
intertwined with workforce strategies. Organizations face
the imperative to become more forward-thinking and
agile while finding and retaining the talent to do so—all
while dealing with the rise of new technology such as
generative AI (gen AI). The opportunities and challenges
these developments create naturally place the HR
department at the center of change.
In March 2024, Harvard Business Review Analytic Services surveyed 444
members of the Harvard Business Review audience who are familiar with the
practices of their organization’s HR department. The respondents are primarily
executive management or board members (32%) and senior management
(34%), as well as other levels. The survey found that the majority of respondents
(82%) say it’s very important for HR leadership to influence an organization’s
strategy and vision. However, only 33% report the HR leadership at their
organization is very successful in this regard.
“The job title of the chief HR officer [CHRO] has changed to things like people
officer,” says William Tincup, an HR thought leader and podcaster based in
Arlington, Texas. “But in many cases, the HR mindset has not changed. HR
needs to get on board with things like technology adoption or the operations
and financial departments are going to take over its responsibilities.”
The 33% of organizations whose HR leadership is very successful at
influencing strategy and vision, according to respondents, are defined in this
report as “leaders.” The organizations whose HR leadership is identified as
somewhat successful in that regard (37%) are defined here as “followers.” Those
that are not very successful in that regard (30%) are defined as “laggards.”
Leaders are focusing on areas that have not traditionally been associated
with HR. For example, 81% of leaders agree that “the HR leadership is regarded

HIGHLIGHTS

82% of respondents say
it’s very important for HR
departments to influence
an organization’s strategy
and vision.

81% of leaders agree the HR
leadership is regarded as
influential in ensuring the
organization acts in an ethical
manner by people within the
organization.

26% agree the HR leadership at
their organization is engaged in
enterprise-wide generative AI
strategy discussions.

Due to rounding, some figures in this report may not
add up to 100%.

Research Report | The New HR Imperative: HR Executives as Strategists and Visionaries
1

Harvard Business Review Analytic Services

“We are at a pivot point in the practice of HR and, more importantly,
in the recognition of the value of HR as a strategically essential
function,” says Corinne Bendersky, faculty chair and associate
professor of management and organizations at the University of
California, Los Angeles (UCLA).

Pursuing New Priorities

as influential in ensuring the organization acts in an ethical
manner by people within the organization.” “The strong HR
organizations create a culture in which an ethical sensibility
is manifesting because it’s just part of how they do things,
as opposed to there being a rule for that,” says Amy Loomis,
research vice president, Future of Work, at International
Data Corp. (IDC), a consultancy in Needham, Mass. “They
are being honest about how new ways of working aren’t fully
developed but are fully essential.”
The demands of today's workforce are positioning CHROs
to drive transformative change across the organization.
They can fortify their position by shoring up their HR
departments in several ways. The survey showed that
HR departments have room for improvement around key
talent areas, such as ongoing training and development
of employees, creating systems to motivate employees,
and performance management. The survey also indicated
that most HR departments are lagging in their technology
skills and emphasizing passive metrics like turnover. By
putting more effort into these areas, CHROs can enable their
departments to become even greater influencers in strategic
decision making.
“We are at a pivot point in the practice of HR and, more
importantly, in the recognition of the value of HR as a
strategically essential function,” says Corinne Bendersky,
faculty chair and associate professor of management and
organizations at the University of California, Los Angeles
(UCLA). “HR leaders can’t make strategically viable
recommendations without data and analytics to guide them.
HR needs to do a better job [of] keeping pace with the skill
sets they need [in order] to use those technology resources
to both enhance decision making and communicate
persuasively.”
This report will explore how HR departments must expand
their role to become a greater strategic and visionary force,
including the measures they must take to improve their
workforce and overall organization, the obstacles they must
overcome, and the capabilities they must develop and use to
achieve their growing mandate. The survey findings illustrate
the opportunities and challenges that arise from this new HR
mandate, providing a guide for others to follow.

Administrative tasks like compliance and recordkeeping have
always been at the core of HR department functions.
Ninety-one percent of the survey’s respondents say the
HR department at their organization is very or somewhat
successful at maintaining employee records. In addition, 86%
say their HR department is very or somewhat successful at
ensuring legal and regulatory compliance.
In these complex times, however, organizations need
far more from their HR departments. “The tactical stuff of
HR, like compliance, is the safe place,” Tincup says. “The
HR innovators are pushing beyond the safe places to the
tougher tasks. They are thinking more about things from the
perspective of the IT, finance, or sales departments.”
CHROs and HR departments are positioned to make an
even bigger strategic impact by moving beyond the tactical
and practical to transformative tasks. A central element
of HR making a strategic impact is its role in shaping an
organizational culture. Strengthening the organizational
culture is the top priority that HR leadership should focus on
more, according to survey respondents. More than a third of
leaders (35%), 46% of followers, and 43% of laggards want their
HR leadership to increase their focus on this priority. FIGURE 1
However, there are other areas CHROs and HR departments
should focus on improving to meet more of their organizations’
growing needs. Respondents say their HR departments are
“very successful” at expected duties, like maintaining employee
records (55%) and ensuring legal and regulatory compliance
(51%). They are less likely to see their HR department as
“very successful” for many employee-focused tasks, such
as creating systems to motivate employees (11%), mediating
relationships between employees (17%), and onboarding and
training talent (22%).
Three additional priority areas that survey respondents
want their HR leadership to give greater focus to revolve
around talent—improving talent retention (41%), employee
engagement (38%), and employee development (36%). “If you’re
not focusing on retention, engagement, and development, I
don’t know what you’re there to do besides paperwork,” says
Keahn Gary, a senior manager and innovation and disruption
strategist at Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp., a global

Research Report | The New HR Imperative: HR Executives as Strategists and Visionaries
2

Harvard Business Review Analytic Services

IT services and consulting firm headquartered in Teaneck,
N.J. “You have to give people a space to grow.”
Notably, few leaders (13%), followers (7%), and laggards
(7%) cite increased profit as a top priority on which the HR
leadership at their organization needs to increase its focus.
Instead, leaders prioritize forward-thinking elements like
increasing automation with technology (21%) and preparing
for the next generation of workers (26%) more than do the
other two groups. Meanwhile, talent-related priorities are at
the top of the list for followers, including improving talent
retention (45%), employee development (40%), and employee
engagement (38%).
Experts say HR departments must focus their employee
development efforts widely, reaching into every tier across the

organization. “CHROs should keep their finger on the pulse of
employee engagement and track the impact and strategy for
leadership development,” IDC’s Loomis says. “This is true for
mid-management, in particular, but also for senior leaders
because their ability to shift their mindset and approach is a
critical factor in organizational success.”

New Capabilities Needed
CHROs and HR departments have heard the call to be a bigger
force in dynamic and difficult times. The past five years have
seen social unrest and a pandemic challenge companies’
policies on remote work and employee wellness, increasing
the responsibilities of and pressure on HR.

Research Report | The New HR Imperative: HR Executives as Strategists and Visionaries
3

Harvard Business Review Analytic Services

Two-thirds of respondents (65%) say the HR capabilities at
their organization have become more critical for success in
the past two years. “Even as little as three or four years ago,
we were not seeing CHROs involved in the decision making
for companies around what position they would take on
social issues,” says Art Mazor, global human capital practice
leader for Deloitte Consulting LLP, headquartered in New
York. “That’s changed dramatically.”
Respondents say the key obstacle preventing HR
departments from achieving their goals is insufficient
skills within their HR department. This was cited by 40%
of respondents overall and 56% of laggards. In contrast,
leaders (29%) are less likely to cite insufficient skills as an
obstacle. Other key obstacles preventing HR departments

from achieving their goals include difficulty in demonstrating
the link between HR efforts and business outcomes (38%),
operational inefficiencies (37%), and a lack of resources and
people power (33%). FIGURE 2
Respondents say the key capabilities that the HR
leadership at their organization should have to increase
their value to the organization are a mindset of growth
and innovation, strategic thinking ability, talent retention
abilities, and a strategic partnership orientation. However,
differences emerged between what respondents say HR
leadership at their organization should have and what the HR
leadership does have to allow them to increase their value.
In particular, key differences include a mindset based on
growth and innovation (38% should have; 27% does have),

Research Report | The New HR Imperative: HR Executives as Strategists and Visionaries
4

65%

say the HR
capabilities at
their organization
have become
more critical for
success in the
past two years.

Harvard Business Review Analytic Services

and strategic thinking ability (38% should have, 28% does
have). FIGURE 3
Diane Youden, principal in workforce transformation,
PwC US, the New York-headquartered consultancy, notes
the CHRO should establish a vision for the near future
and build HR’s brand as a key strategic partner engaged in
solving business issues.
She says HR should invest time to understand key business
topics such as gen AI, climate change, and cybersecurity
in order to establish a point of view of HR’s role in these
important business priorities. This vision will set the
objectives for investing in specific HR capabilities, achieving
efficiencies in HR delivery, and establishing key foundations
such as a talent architecture of skills and an internal career
mobility program. It will also establish the core threads of
how HR tells its story to key stakeholders, building its brand
as a strategic partner engaged in solving business issues.
“CHROs should focus on building modern capabilities
and skills within the HR organization,” says Youden. “This
includes not being afraid to innovate and introduce new
programs that address the needs of an evolving workforce.”
Many of these capabilities support the collaboration that
is needed as HR tackles more complex issues. Effective HR
leadership hinges on strong collaboration with other C-suite
executives, particularly the chief information officer and
CFO, on such issues as workforce planning, technology
investments, and operational efficiency.
“To effectively cultivate these capabilities requires a
commitment from the business leaders,” Youden says.
“HR will need to collaborate with the business to establish
a clear vision and will also need to use a data-driven
approach to show progress and demonstrate the positive
impact of these initiatives. By highlighting tangible results
and progression, HR can support the sustainability and
scalability of these programs.”
Forging stronger partnerships with the C-suite could
also help HR nudge leaders in areas where HR has limited
authority itself. “Organizational culture is a great example
of something that only the top leaders can change,” says
Peter Cappelli, director of the Wharton Center for Human
Resources at the University of Pennsylvania. “It is driven not
by campaigns or communication but by acting differently.
Culture doesn’t change unless what the organization rewards
and punishes changes, and HR has zero control over that.”

Where HR Must Take the Lead
Even as their impact and role become larger, CHROs should
give deeper consideration to whether they are focusing their
time and efforts enough on areas of key importance to the
organization. The survey found the areas where HR leadership
has taken a primary role in addressing their organization’s

Research Report | The New HR Imperative: HR Executives as Strategists and Visionaries
6

“The tactical stuff of
HR, like compliance, is
the safe place. The HR
innovators are pushing
beyond the safe places to
the tougher tasks. They
are thinking more about
things from the perspective
of the IT, finance, or sales
departments,” says William
Tincup, an HR thought
leader and podcaster
based in Arlington, Texas.

Harvard Business Review Analytic Services

needs include well-established HR terrain, such as the
challenge of attracting talent with necessary skills (67%), the
need to address employees’ mental and emotional well-being
(66%), and further development of inclusive cultures (55%).
However, the survey also found gaps between the issues
HR is addressing and the issues that have a significant
impact on organizational success. Top among the gaps is
the need for transparent communication across all levels of
the organization. Sixty percent of respondents say the need
for transparent communication across all levels has impacted
success at their organization. However, only 45% say the HR
leadership at their organization has taken a primary role in
addressing it. FIGURE 4
“HR is critical for helping navigate the increased number
of business changes; however, oftentimes they lack the right
skills and capabilities to support the workforce through those,”
explains Anthony Abbatiello, workforce transformation
practice leader, PwC US. “Investing in both areas can help
HR be more effective in supporting business outcomes.”
Transparent communication is an area where HR should
take a lead, experts agree. Such communication can be done
by soliciting employee feedback more frequently and then
sharing the findings openly, even if those findings reveal
organizational shortcomings. “It’s vital that CHROs take
the feedback they get from workers and then reflect it back
to the workforce in an unvarnished way,” Deloitte’s Mazor
says. “In the past, the norm was to polish up the results
from engagement surveys to make it look like companies
were doing better than they really were. Now HR is being
very honest about exactly where they stand in terms of
their level of inclusion and equity across the organization.
Consequently, employees take HR seriously when they try
to advance their agenda in that space.”
He adds that transparency works best when the organization
has invested the time to figure out what it needs to do to make
corrections. Transparency becomes productive when it is
coupled with solutions.
The survey found additional differences of opinion as
to which economic forces are impacting organizational
success and where HR is taking the lead. Forty-two percent
of respondents say the increased rate of change of business
conditions has impacted the success of their organization,
yet only 20% say that the HR leadership has taken a primary
role in addressing their organization’s needs regarding this
development. Likewise, 46% say that the evolving use of
technology has impacted success at their organization, yet
only 23% say that the HR leadership has taken a primary
role in addressing their organization’s needs regarding this
development.
“HR’s limited involvement may stem from a lack of
connection between program outcomes and HR’s value
proposition,” Youden of PwC says. To address this disconnect,

Research Report | The New HR Imperative: HR Executives as Strategists and Visionaries
8

Harvard Business Review Analytic Services

“By actively engaging with project teams and communicating their
ability to contribute effectively, HR can reshape the perception
of its role and become an indispensable partner in driving
organizational success,” says Diane Youden, principal in workforce
transformation, PwC US.

HR professionals should “sell their plan” by approaching
project teams and leadership, showcasing how HR can
collaborate to drive the desired outcomes. “By highlighting
the people factor, including change adoption, upskilling, and
potentially associated changes in job responsibilities, HR can
demonstrate its value in promoting success,” Youden says.
“By actively engaging with project teams and communicating
their ability to contribute effectively, HR can reshape the
perception of its role and become an indispensable partner
in driving organizational success.”

Ethics as HR Mandate
HR leadership is seen as key to ensuring ethical behavior.
About two-thirds of respondents (65%) agree that the HR
leadership at their organization is regarded as influential
in ensuring their organization acts in an ethical manner by
people within the organization. This finding was far more
common among leaders (81%) than among followers (68%)
and laggards (44%). FIGURE 5
“Companies need to think about the human implications of
any decisions they make,” UCLA’s Bendersky says. “It saddens
me when I hear about companies where HR is perceived as
the bad guy who’s just there to do investigations and protect
the company. HR should be protecting the employees and be
the voice of the employees at the C-suite.”
Loomis says becoming a greater ethical force requires selfreflection on the part of HR. “It’s very important for HR to
be seen as ethical, and one of the ways they can do that is to
acknowledge that, even with the best intentions, historically
the systems that are put in place to support the organization
on a day-to-day basis can make it challenging to recognize
how to be ethical in the moment,” she says. “Creating a culture
of trust begins by looking in the mirror.”
As part of that ethical standing, 74% of leaders agree that the
HR leadership at their organization is taking steps to ensure
there is trust between management and employees, whereas
fewer laggards (38%) agree. Similarly, 79% of leaders agree that
HR leadership at their organization is focusing on improving
company culture to meet workers' rising expectations, but
only 44% of laggards agree.

Research Report | The New HR Imperative: HR Executives as Strategists and Visionaries
9

Harvard Business Review Analytic Services

“We don’t talk about people as people, we talk about them
as resources,” Cognizant’s Gary says. “That can be problematic
because we don’t consider all the other aspects and dimensions
of their lives that contribute to how they show up to work
every day, whether they want to come back tomorrow, and
whether they want to have their friend come work with them.
The core of every business is the people and their interactions
and engagement with each other.”

data and metrics. “One of the big things that HR leaders do
is take the temperature of the organization and know where
their employees are and what they need to be able to anticipate
and to be proactive concerning strategic decision making,”
Bendersky says. “So increasing analytical skills and bringing
more technology analysts into the HR function is critical.”
Taking that temperature well means selecting the correct
metrics. The survey found that employee turnover and
retention rates (59%), employee satisfaction (52%), and
employee performance (50%) were the metrics respondents say
their HR department tracks to help executives make decisions.
Overall, leaders track more HR metrics to aid decision making
than do followers and laggards. The metrics where leaders are
most ahead of laggards are employee performance (64% vs.
32%), productivity measures (41% vs. 22%), cost to hire (37%
vs. 16%), and training effectiveness (39% vs. 9%).
“Right now, too many of the metrics that HR uses are
passive,” Gary says. “Knowing you have an attrition rate of
X% doesn’t tell the full story of the employee life cycle. You
need more detailed and personal information about employee
sentiment. If an employee joined you a month ago, you should
measure whether they know who their boss is, whether they
know what to do, and whether they feel supported. You have
to be sure you are collecting the data that makes sense and
can tell a story over time, rather than just tell the story you
want to tell.”

Impact of Artificial Intelligence and Data
Data and technology are critical tools that CHROs can
leverage to make a larger impact. Hardly a day passes without
discussion of new ways that AI and data could affect our lives
and the way we work. The technology has both huge workforce
and ethics implications. For example, there are concerns
about whether artificial intelligence (AI) could unwittingly
introduce bias into hiring decisions, making technology an
element in HR’s ethical mission.
At the moment, though, HR departments appear to be
making limited use of AI within their own operations. In fact,
38% of survey respondents indicated that the HR department
at their organization was not using AI. For those using AI, the
most commonly cited ways AI is being used include reducing
the number of routine or repetitive tasks for employees (21%),
streamlining HR processes (20%), and bolstering learning
and development (16%). In addition, 16% of respondents say
they don’t know if the HR department at their organization
is using AI. FIGURE 6
Similarly, only 27% of respondents agree that the
HR leadership at their organization is leveraging AI for
transactional and operational efficiency to make room for
the more human side of the business. “A lot of HR practitioners
look at AI as a competitor that will take their jobs,” Tincup
says. “That’s a natural response. But the reality is AI is going
to take the low-value tasks. Right now, HR spends its time
running from fire to fire to fire. AI will give them the time to
think strategically so they can come up with those crazy ideas
that will make the hair on the back of their necks stand up.”
HR is also not playing a strong role in how the rest of the
organization is using AI. Only 26% of survey respondents
agree that the HR leadership at their organization is engaged
in enterprise-wide gen AI strategy discussions.
“HR should be 100% involved in the generative AI
discussions because companies need to think about the
displacement effects of their AI policies and practices,”
Bendersky says. “It’s not in society’s interests to displace
many people from jobs with computers. It is in society’s
interest to make people more efficient and productive in their
jobs, especially with looming labor shortages.”
As data-driven decisions and new AI tools become the norm,
HR departments need to develop greater expertise in using

Key Steps for HR Leaders
The survey and interviews with experts revealed key steps
that leaders are taking to help them stand out from followers
and laggards. Leaders do the following:

Emphasize transferable skills, experiences, and the
ability to learn new skills. “Today, a big driver of engagement
is the opportunity to grow new skills,” Mazor says. “And
the workforce is really looking for that, whether they’re
potential workers or the workers we have working for our
companies now.”

Improve manager listening and feedback to boost talent
retention. “Companies used to do employee surveys once a
year,” Mazor says. “The best CHROs are driving employee
listening to new frontiers, with regular pulse checks and
regular focus groups that allow them to make changes that
drive better workforce engagement.”

Align employee learning with business goals, upskilling,
and training on emotional intelligence. “We need to be
relentless in ensuring our employees have all the tools they
need to be successful,” Tincup says. “Reskilling and upskilling
are not a one-and-done. It’s forever because skills have a halflife, and we don’t talk about skills decay the way we should.”

Develop a more inclusive culture focused on well-being.
“There needs to be a massive shift in how we look at people,

Research Report | The New HR Imperative: HR Executives as Strategists and Visionaries
10

Harvard Business Review Analytic Services

“HR should be 100% involved in the generative AI discussions
because companies need to think about the displacement effects
of their AI policies and practices,” UCLA’s Bendersky says.

Research Report | The New HR Imperative: HR Executives as Strategists and Visionaries
11

Harvard Business Review Analytic Services

“CHROs will need to pivot and focus on board-level issues that
help evolve the business model and create economic value for
shareholders,” says Anthony Abbatiello, Workforce Transformation
practice leader, PwC US.

from a cost center to investment,” Gary says. “Many studies
show that diversity, equity, and inclusion has been dropping
in importance since 2021, when it peaked as a high priority.
But you can’t be human-centered without understanding that
DEI is critical to your success.”
Employ HR metrics to aid decision making. As the
survey suggests, they should track employee performance,
productivity, cost to hire, and training effectiveness. “If you’re
still measuring turnover by itself, you’re measuring the wrong
thing,” Mazor says. “Because we recognize that people are not
staying with companies for a lifetime career, turnover can
be healthy; it’s a backward metric. Measuring engagement
is more closely linked to productivity.”

Over the next three years, “CHROs will need to pivot and
focus on board-level issues that help evolve the business
model and create economic value for shareholders,” Abbatiello
says. Key responsibilities will include optimizing benefits and
reward plans, maximizing tax efficiencies, reinvesting in skills
architecture, upskilling the workforce, and delivering a worldclass work experience.
To help their organizations change, HR departments
themselves must change. “While new technologies will be
a catalyst toward HR evolution, HR will also need to change
its operating and service delivery models to free up capacity,
as well as upskilling itself, to focus on these more strategic,
value-added initiatives,” Youden says. “HR will need to take
an outcomes- or metrics-driven approach, to better articulate
their impact on these and other business priorities.”
As if all that weren’t enough, AI poses a significant ethical
challenge for HR. “Unlike other technology advances that
have happened before, there is a fundamental moral aspect in
AI, because it’s going to reify and reinforce a lot of the innate
bias,” Loomis says. “On the plus side, there’s an opportunity
in the HR realm for using AI to expose bias.”
For their organizations to thrive, CHROs and their HR
departments must take a leadership role in ensuring their
organizations embrace the people-first mantra that is becoming
a strategic imperative. “We live in a different world now than
we did only a few years ago,” Gary says. “Everything’s more
complex; the values are different. We need to figure out how to
ensure those values are reflected in the way that we approach
talent management as a whole, so the workforce sees we are
making a genuine investment and have a genuine commitment
to the people who determine the organization’s success.”

Conclusion
In fast-changing, complex times, CHROs are well-positioned
to make their HR departments a strategic force within
their organizations. “Today, HR leaders are expected to be
strategic partners who contribute to the overall business
strategy,” Mazor says. “CHROs are now expected to not only
be at the table but bring solutions and help organizations
to make strategic choices around their workforce and the
social agenda.”
Leaders are far more likely to take a more forward-thinking
and strategic approach to stay ahead of trends than are
followers or laggards. More than half (57%) of leaders agree
that the HR leadership at their organization takes a “futurist”
outlook, staying ahead of business and workforce trends that
affect their organization, whereas only 32% of followers and
19% of laggards agree.

Research Report | The New HR Imperative: HR Executives as Strategists and Visionaries
12

M E T H O D O LO GY A N D PA R T I C I PA N T P R O F I L E

Harvard Business Review Analytic Services surveyed 444 members of the Harvard Business Review
audience via an online survey fielded in April 2024. Respondents qualified to complete the survey if
they were familiar with the practices of the HR department at their organization.
Size of Organization

Seniority

Key Industry Sectors

Job Function

Regions

34%

32%

16%

16%

41%

14%

10%

23%

10,000 or more
employees

38%

1,000–9,999
employees

12%

500–999
employees

16%

100–499
employees

Executive
management/
board members

34%

Senior
management

19%

Middle
management

16%

Other grades

Technology

Education

9%

Financial
services

9%

Government/
not for profit

9%

Manufacturing
All other sectors
less than 8% each.

Figures may not add up to 100% due to rounding.

HR/training

General
management

9%

Academia
All other functions
less than 8% each.

North America

Europe

23%

Asia Pacific

9%

Middle East/Africa

5%

Latin America

ABOUT US

Harvard Business Review Analytic Services is an independent commercial research
unit within Harvard Business Review Group, conducting research and comparative
analysis on important management challenges and emerging business opportunities.
Seeking to provide business intelligence and peer-group insight, each report is
published based on the findings of original quantitative and/or qualitative research
and analysis. Quantitative surveys are conducted with the HBR Advisory Council,
HBR’s global research panel, and qualitative research is conducted with senior
business executives and subject-matter experts from within and beyond the Harvard
Business Review author community. Email us at hbranalyticservices@hbr.org.

hbr.org/hbr-analytic-services

Copyright © 2024 Harvard Business School Publishing.

MCCRE52991024

